Playing against limpers: 
https://upswingpoker.com/limps-poker-open-limpers-strategy/ 

https://upswingpoker.com/what-is-bluff-to-value-ratio/#:~:text=Bl
uff%2Dto%2DValue%20Ratios%20on,to%20value%20on%20the%
20river 

Main people: doug polk, ryan fee, gary blackwood, etc 

Bet size based on texture 
Bet frequency based on range 
Hand dictates inside the frequency when to bet 
-dry (and sometimes wet) but good for range vs opponents = bet alot more, and bet 
smaller size 
-wet but good for range vs opponents = hard to say, can still bet kinda wide and bet size 
is erratic. maybe bc have nut advantage almost always here, raise bet size in some 
cases 
-dry/wet but bad for range vs opponents: check more often, higher bet size when bet. 
Basically if bad board for ur range check way more often and use higher bet size when 
betting. 
-^OTHER THINGS CHANGE THIS A GOOD AMOUNT, like if ip or oop, 3b pot vs srp, 
STACK SIZE(w link), etc! 
-(better board = better equity and vice versa, they go hand in hand.) 
-INFO ON BOARDS NEXT PAGE ISH! 

-alot say bet bigger size on wet boards and check alot, and smaller size dry boards but 
more frequent bets, however this can be true but what is above is also can be true, so 
hard to know exactly. I tend to side slightly more with whats above, but this still has 
merit. 
-can overbet more when have nut advantage 
-checking range for any board is weak top pairs, complete air, and immediate underpair 
to top pair that does not need protection. If board is bad or good we check these types, 
just to a much higher extent and frequency on bad boards. 
-generally bet smaller size when betting wider range of hands and bet larger size when 
betting more polarized 

 
 
 
 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

-for multiway pots: ip plays roughly the same, but oop does a lot more checking and 
lower bet size (33% stays, 75% goes down to 50ish%) bc don’t wanna bloat multiway 
pot oop. oop: never bet whole range, checking more is needed. 

^ALL OF THIS IS DEBATABLE (specifics on bet sizing), hard to know but is a good 
baseline, however is very generalized and can be osmetimes wrong 
-refer to spreadsheets for info on board textures and frequency to bet 

Boards good for what (in general): 
Check spreadsheets to see!!!!! Rmbr things like connecteivty and stuff like that, but 
periodically check spreadsheets to always know what is good for what 
Spreadsheets: 
BTN vs MP 3BP FINAL1 - Google Sheets 
Gaz BTN vs BB Cbet Strat FINAL - Google Drive 
Gaz MP vs BTN SRP Report v2 - Google Drive 
BTN vs CO doc.xlsx - Google Sheets 
Gary's Advanced Live Module Spreadsheets - Google Docs 

In general: 
Pfc: lower/middling boards, low paired boards 
Pfr: single or double broadway boards (not single jack tho), high paired boards 
The more connected the boards are for middling/low or single broadways or even 
sometimes double broadways boards, it gets even worse for pfr, therefore more 
checking!! 

When deciding some folds or bluffs or raises etc, think of hands your range would do 
with how the hand has gone. Helps so you do not overbluff or overfold or overraise, bc 
you go by your range so you pick a balanced number. 

-ryan fee said in his module of 10k hands 50NL that the lower stake players tend to not 
bluff river as much and tend to hero call more, so know this. don’t alter strategy fully just 
slightly change! and note that this is for his experience online at ACR, so could maybe 
be diff low stakes live or elsehweee 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

- in addition^, things in lab are a baseline strategy for against randos. If we know comp, 
should still use the strategy, but can alter some decisions to exploit the people (hero 
folds or less bluffs for example. Or could be opposite in some cases.). for ex how ryan 
fees needed to change his normal style for lower level of 50NL 
-^^^ super important, and can mean a shift in any direction just depends on the player 
pool or game 
-^^for better players like steves tourney, need to be balanced with bluffs and bluff more! 

-rmbr to think of hands there range could have based on position and board and their 
betting pattern in the hand. Use this when making decisions! 
-also^ think of what you could have bc opponent may think of that too, so this helps 
when making bluffs or value bets 
-need bluffs for all spots, even ones you check/call river and turn, so sometimes get 
creative maybe. always for bluffs think of removal and stuff 
-bluffs in turn/flop: use draws basically, rly any draw generalized. bluffs in river: bottom 
of range with best removal, since there are no draws on river. 
-if draws missed or hit, regardless of whether you have them, take this into 
consideration when bluffing or raising or calling! can sometimes trick opponents or get 
tricked by this 
-don’t be afraid to make adjustments and change things when being unsuccessful, 
however you also could just be running cold. also, playing tight or loose or a lot of things 
like that can change between player pools and stuff like that, as long as not too too 
large of chsnge. not one size fits all, but make adjustments that you UNDERSTAND!  
-adjustments to players and player pooll is absolutelyfundamental undamental  
-exploit leaks: https://upswingpoker.com/exploit-poker-leaks/ 
-RMBR ITS OKAY TO HAVE LOSING DAYS OR ALOT OF LOSING DAYS, even days 
you lose everything! Profit is long term, a losing everything day is normal and bound to 
happen a decent amount 
-dont be afraid to fastplay value: slowplaying can sometimes work, but in general, fast 
playing is good. DO NOT be scared about villain folding, it happens but you have to 
think of what will make most money in the long run. Will likely never get big enough pot 
for nutted hands slowplaying unless the person is aggro. Bet for value is almost always 
best overtime for lower stake live games, but even higher stake tougher games should 
still mostly bet for value. 
-for some draws like bdsd and bdfd, can give up if no equity picked up but if pick up 
equite can continue to barrel. generally fast playing is just better EV (usually). 
-for higher stake or tougher games w better people can play more in line with how the 
lab wants, but for lower stake and soft games w fish gotta deviate and play slightly more 
like a nit. 
-you are supposed to cbet alot less oop vs ip 

 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

-https://upswingpoker.com/turn-play-after-check-raise-bluffing/  <- good tip is dont need 
to keep bluffing if didnt pick up good equity (if hand doesnt already have high equity) 
-remeber to use things like blockers on all streets and value bets and bluffs 
-great article about bluff percentage on river (should be 33% blff 66% value, guarantees 
100 profit no matter what oponenet does. Therefore if you dont know opponent this is 
the only way and best way to GURANTEE the best profit, however YOU CAN adjust if 
you have reliable evidence of oponent): 
https://upswingpoker.com/gto-poker-game-theory-optimal-strategy/#dougexamples 
-if person bets smaller soze can raise more on flop and vice versa 
-take position and how that effects realizing equity into pot odds  

-  Live advice/wisdom from upswing 
-  be thinking about why your making any bet/bet size at any point and what your 

trying to accomplish, like what parts of their range your targeting w 
bet/betsize((either to get folded or to get calls from or things like that)), how 
population tendencies work in this situation, etc.  
think what can i do to make them make a mistake, and what’s the mistake he is 
gonna make. (aka calling 3bets to wide, etc), and how to put yourself in position to 
make money when those mistakes are made. 

- 

-  Block betting can also be amazing**only for oop on river( when turn  goes check check 
to get thin value) (bigger bet gets called by rly only better hands, smaller bet can get 
calls from slightly worse hands so kinda like thin value, and it makes it hard for them to 
raise and put you in a tough spot.)MORE AND BETTER INFO:  
(https://upswingpoker.com/block-bet/?inf_contact_key=625f4533f3869f2c7873f7a68fa2b
b95850050e7915f41da51043c293c2d487f) 

Upswing bet sizing link:https://upswingpoker.com/bet-size-strategy-tips-rules/#betrules3 

Video explaining size well:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dVZ1CdESSTw 

To succeed longterm be focused on learning and not money/!!! 

- 

If you wanna make money, gotta improve or others will take ur money. IMPROVE 
AND LEARN ALWAYS 

Advice: its one thing to know what your doing, and its another thing to do it. You struggle 
(vincent) with this, so need to replicate what you know to in game! 

Basics on spr (stack-pot-ratio): https://www.splitsuit.com/spr-poker-strategy 

 
 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Great article from upswing on 3b pot vs srp (can relate lower stack-pot-ratio (3bet pots) 
to tournaments easier.): https://upswingpoker.com/single-raised-pots-vs-3-bet-pots/ 

Read when subscription is up (find more good free articles as well): 
https://upswingpoker.com/poker-tournament-tips-strategy-mtt/ 
https://upswingpoker.com/podcast/ep26-multiway/ 
Upswing podcasts have good info and transcripts 
Take quizzes on upswing 
reread this doc, and read the stuff you just pasted on last day and didn’t actually do at 
all!! 
-read stuff on here about what to do when facing bet on flop or turn or river(if there for 
river) should be towards end and in middle and throughout  
-review turn/river throughout here in all sections  

UPSWING 


Home > Dashboard > The Poker Lab No Limit Simplified > Game Elements by Doug 
Polk & Ryan Fee 

 Back 

Game Elements 

Poker is a simple game to learn. Hopefully the  Preflop and Postflop 
modules have proved that poker is a difficult game to master. 

What we aim to do in these modules is teach you about the  peripheral 
elements of the game. 

 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Setting yourself up for success before you even sit down at the table is 
just as important, if not more important, than playing a sound strategy. 

But just like eating vegetables it is easy to do, but sometimes hard to 
commit yourself to. 

We want to emphasize that these things really make a huge difference. 
The human mind isn't designed to understand what goes into winning 
play, let alone the swings in poker. 

The real edge is found in being very diligent and following a strict set of 
guidelines when it comes to strategy preparation, game selection, and 
bankroll management. 

If you stick to these rules you will find success. 

If not, results will vary at best. 

Creating a positive environment to play is the difference between 
success and failure. 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Our impression is that very few players actually follow through with these 
things. By creating an away from the table game plan and sticking to it 
you are giving yourself an immediate advantage over the majority of 
poker players. 

Poker Lab Home 

UPSWING 

POKER 
Members 

← Previous Lesson 

Next Lesson → 

UPSWING POKER 
© Copyright 2023 
Sitemap 
Responsible Gambling 
Terms of Service 
Contact 

Merch 
FAQ 
Contact 
Vincent Guarnieri 
TRAINING 
ARTICLES 
QUIZZES 
REVIEWS 
OUR PROS 
FREERESOURCES 

 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Home > Dashboard > The Poker Lab No Limit Simplified > Bankroll Management by 
Doug Polk 

 Back 

Bankroll Management 

Bankroll Management 

Bankroll management is the poker equivalent of risk management. 
Without proper bankroll management, you are absolutely certain to lose 
all of your money, no matter how well you play. 

Take a look at these results from a poker variance simulator. 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

This sample of hands was run with  a 5 big blind per 100 hands winrate, 
a modest but respectable winrate. The risk or variance for these hands is 
a 100 BB/100 Hands standard deviation, which is normal for No Limit 
Poker, over the course of 10,000 hands. This graph shows a variety of 
the outcomes that would happen under these circumstances. 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

What is crazy is that after 10,000 hands there is a 30% chance that this 
sample actually loses money. The conclusions to draw from these are 
two fold: 

First, it is critical to your success that you do everything you can to 
improve. Buying this Lab was definitely a good start. 

Second, because of the random nature of the game it is vital to be 
properly bankrolled to avoid going broke. 

We have four rules that serve as a guideline to keep you safe from risk of 
ruin. 

Rule #1 – Have a Dedicated Poker Bankroll 

We are astonished by how often people sit and play with more money 
than their bankroll permits, doing so because they want to feel the rush 
of the game. 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

If you are a recreational player, playing for fun, and indifferent to whether 
you win or lose, then by all means sit down with the home deed. If your 
goal is to be a winning player, however, then you must strictly adhere to 
your bankroll limits. 

Winning players have a set amount of money specifically used for 
playing poker and nothing else. 

It is okay if your poker bankroll is a small fraction relative to your net 
worth. In fact, especially when you are starting out, it is wise to make 
your poker bankroll an amount of money you feel comfortable losing. The 
key mindset is that you are comfortable losing the amount of money you 
play with, recognizing that often that is the price of learning and 
improving. 

Rule #2 – Watch your Number of Buyins 

Never play a cash game with fewer than 25 buyins, or a tournament 
with fewer than 50. 

We would advocate that playing cash games with at least 40 buyins and 
100 for tournaments would be closer to optimal bankroll management. If, 
for whatever reason, you must “go big,” then please never exceed these 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

limits. Under these scenarios, you will gamble effectively without feeling 
the risk of losing your buyin. If you gamble with more money than your 
poker bankroll can stand to lose, then you’ve already lost the game. 

Rule #3 – Make Friends 

Make friends in poker as they can be your most trusted investors. 

In an ideal world, you could always pick your buyin based on your current 
bankroll. The unfortunate reality is that stakes often move up by 2 or 2.5 
times the previous stake. The result is often you will find it difficult to 
move up in stakes without a significant amount of winnings at a prior 
stake. 

By finding other poker players who view you as a profitable investment, 
you can choose to sell them pieces of your action at higher stakes, 
allowing you to move up more quickly with less risk. Let’s say, for 
instance, you are a $1/$2 player looking to move up to $2/$5. This is an 
increase of 150%! 

It would be better if you could move up to $1.5/$3 or $2/$4 before taking 
all of your own action at $2/$5. In this scenario, if you have a friend who 
thinks you are a profitable investment in the $2/$5 game, you can sell 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

them 40% of your action, effectively making the stakes $1.5/$3 and 
allowing you to play a bigger game with less risk. 

Having this versatility is great in poker. Don't pass up opportunities to 
make friends in the game who can help you distribute your risk. 

One Final Thought: One thing you could choose to do when moving up is 
to play a bit tighter. This is especially effective in games that are very 
loose and a big part of your edge comes from players paying off value 
bets. If you play live and your game is tougher and your opponents know 
you are shot taking and will be playing a more tight style you may want to 
choose to sell action and play your normal game instead. 

Rule #4 – Know When it's Time to Move 
Down 

As poker players, we often have big egos. We are here to win, and a lot 
of poker players are known for their antics on and off the table. For this 
reason, a lot of players have a difficult time facing the music. When 
things go badly, which at some point they will, you need to be able to 
hang up the gloves and live to fight another day. 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

There is nothing wrong with having to move down in stakes because of 
losses or because you do not think your play is up to par. Be confident, 
but also be humble and know when it's time to move down. The most 
important part about bankroll management is to live to fight another day. 

Poker Lab Home 

UPSWING 

POKER 
Members 

← Previous Lesson 

Next Lesson → 

UPSWING POKER 
© Copyright 2023 
Sitemap 
Responsible Gambling 
Terms of Service 
Contact 

Merch 
FAQ 
Contact 
Vincent Guarnieri 
TRAINING 
ARTICLES 

  
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

QUIZZES 
REVIEWS 
OUR PROS 
FREERESOURCES 
Home > Dashboard > The Poker Lab No Limit Simplified > Game Selection by Doug 
Polk & Ryan Fee 

 Back 

Game Selection 

“If you can’t spot the sucker in your first half hour at the table, then you 
ARE the sucker” – Rounders 

Even though this quote comes from a movie, it is remarkable how 
accurate it is. It is not only important to know your skill level but also the 
skill levels of your opponents. If you find yourself in a game where you 
are struggling to see the mistakes of the other players, then it's time to 
find a new game. 

It’s much better to play a $2/$5 game where you have some opponents 
who are making clear mistakes, than a $10/$20 game that is quite tough. 
Even if you have the money for the latter, your hourly will be higher in the 
$2/$5 (possibly even positive as opposed to negative). 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

A variety of tactics can be used to recognize weaker players in a game. 
The first one is great because of its simplicity. Think of everything you 
learned in The Lab – if you see your opponent going against the advice 
listed here (limping in, playing too loose, always chasing draws no matter 
what odds), then you know they are a weak player. You should be taking 
mental notes as you see people play. 

Showdowns are the best opportunities to evaluate your opponents’ play. 
The Lab has outlined what a solid, calculated, winning strategy should 
look like. 

When your opponents get to showdown and you see their hands, then 
consider the way they played them: does it seem like they are thinking 
about the game intelligently? After the hand, you should think “Ahh, 
yeah, that makes sense” or “hmmm, that was a bit questionable on the 
turn.” As you make these notes on players, you will piece together the 
way that they view poker and build an evaluation of their games. 

There are essentially two ways to make mistakes in poker: you can be 
too tight or too loose. If a player is too loose, then they can often 
massively lose. If a player is too tight, then he will lose at a small clip. 

It is much better to be in a game with 5 strong players and 1 very loose, 
weak player, than to be in a game with 3 decent players and 2 players 
who are too tight. 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

In time and with experience, you will learn to gauge these factors and 
determine the most profitable game for you. You will also learn that which 
seat you are in plays a role in which game is most profitable. 

Seat selection is a very important part of poker. 

The general rule is: 

We want to sit to the left of loose players and the right 
of tight players. 

By being to the left of loose players, you maximize the amount of pots 
you will play against them, doing so in position. 

For the players to your left, however, you want to be tighter. By the 
players to your left playing tighter, you minimize the number of times you 
are reraised and called, playing fewer pots out of position. Tighter play to 
your left also allows you to steal the blinds much more effectively. 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Let’s examine two similar games to see this scenario in action. Consider 
a game where there are 5 players other than you, 4 average players and 
1 quite loose one. If you are to the loose player’s direct left, you will be 
very confident that you will be a big winner in the game. 

If, however, the loose player is to your left, then you will be less confident 
about your winrate, to the point where you may go from being a big 
winner to a loser in the lineup. The loose player will reduce the 
profitability of your playing hands by playing many hands in position 
against you in position. 

As the loose player is often entering the pot, he may incentivize other 
players to enter the pot with hands they normally would fold. They may 
view him as an opportunity to make money, thus playing more hands for 
call or 3-bets preflop, denying the profitability of many of your RFI hands. 

This is a perfect example of the power of position as well as the 
importance of seat selection. 

Poker Lab Home 

← Previous Lesson 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Next Lesson → 

UPSWING POKER 
© Copyright 2023 
Sitemap 
Responsible Gambling 
Terms of Service 
Contact 

UPSWING 

POKER 
Members 

Merch 
FAQ 
Contact 
Vincent Guarnieri 
TRAINING 
ARTICLES 
QUIZZES 
REVIEWS 
OUR PROS 
FREERESOURCES 
Home > Dashboard > The Poker Lab No Limit Simplified > Software by Doug Polk & 
Ryan Fee 

 Back 

Software 

Even though poker software may seem like a tool for strictly online 
players, it is one of the most important things that live players neglect. 
Even if you don’t ever play a hand of online poker, you are giving up an 
invaluable learning opportunity by not experimenting with poker software. 

 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Hand Matrix Software 

These are programs that allow you to calculate equity by picking two or 
more hands or ranges and comparing them to each other on every 
conceivable board run out. 

Amarillo slim used to play a game with people back in the 70s and 80s 
where he would present three hands [AKo, JTs, 22]. 

The game worked as follows: you each wagered some amount of money, 
let’s say $100. His opponent would always go first and get to choose any 
of the three previously stated hands. He would then choose his hand 
second. They would run off a flop, turn, and river. The winner was the 
person with best hand after the five board cards were dealt. 

This is a rigged game. By having position and “allowing” his opponent the 
choice to pick their hand first, he made himself a sure winner. If his 
opponent picked [AKo] he would pick [22]: 

 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

If his opponent picked [22] he would pick [JTs]: 

If his opponent picked [JTs] he would pick [AKo]: 

As you can see, he always picks the best hand by acting second in this 
game. 

By “allowing” his opponent to go first, he made them enter into a game 
that they could not win. Without the help of tools such as Equilab, it was 
a very difficult problem to figure out. It is said that Amarillo figured it out 
by using brute force, running tons of boards by hands and then making 
educated guesses. We can only begin to imagine how much time this 
must have taken for just one simple solution. 

 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Now just imagine the poker scenarios in which using this tool would give 
you a massive edge on your opponent. 

Say you were curious about the equity of [AJs] versus [QQ]: 

You could quickly and easily see that [AJs] is basically a 2:1 underdog to 
[QQ]. 

The cool thing about hand matrix programs such as Equilab is that you 
can do a hand versus a range. For instance let’s say we wanted to know 
the equity of [AJs] versus someone’s 25% CO RFI range: 

 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Or even more complex, consider our BTN call range versus the CO RFI 
range: 

Not to mention all of the postflop situations where a hand versus range or 
range versus range calculation could be very useful. 

There is no way to make these calculations on the fly or do them without 
the help of software. Using these products is key to improving as a 
player. We use these programs all the time, and we will use them as long 
as we are professional poker players. 

Poker Database Software 

Poker database software are programs that aggregate hand histories 
distributed by poker sites to sort the data of those hands in different 
ways. 

 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

These programs organize your results so that you can see you progress 
graphically, by stake, by position, by hole card, and so on. 

These programs also help you understand trends in your play as well as 
trends in the play of your opponents. They are absolutely mandatory 
tools for every online player. 

Another reason you want to have this software is that it will display 
information in a chart on your table. This is called a HUD (Heads Up 
Display). Having a HUD gives you immediate access to your opponent’s 
statistics in a variety of both preflop and postflop situations. Players will 
have lots of different styles. We have recommended the best styles in 
this book. But what you really want to know is what your opponents’ raise 
ranges are. Having this software allows you do so. 

After playing a session, or after playing over a certain period of time, you 
may want to see how your various decisions performed. Having access 
to your hands in statistical form lets you see outcomes. You can see how 
all of your raises from the CO went, or what your winrate is when you 3B 
from the SB. This will let you tailor your strategy to better suit your needs 
in your personal games. 

The two primary choices for database software are Pokertracker 4 and 
Holdem Manager 2. There are other ones out there; however, these 
ones are the most widely used and have the best support/updates. 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Poker Lab Home 

← Previous Lesson 

Next Lesson → 

UPSWING POKER 
© Copyright 2023 
Sitemap 
Responsible Gambling 
Terms of Service 
Contact 

UPSWING 

POKER 
Members 

Merch 
FAQ 
Contact 
Vincent Guarnieri 
TRAINING 
ARTICLES 
QUIZZES 
REVIEWS 
OUR PROS 
FREERESOURCES 
Home > Dashboard > The Poker Lab No Limit Simplified > Mental Game by Doug Polk 
& Ryan Fee 

 Back 

Mental Game 

 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Introduction 

The mental game is the final frontier in poker strategy. What we mean by 
this is that the first steps to approaching how to become proficient at 
poker is to focus on the technical aspects — how to play strategically 
well, how to keep improving, bankroll management, and so on. And once 
you’re strong in these areas, it’s your job to always play well. That is you 
don’t tilt, you always keep maximizing expectation as your top goal, and 
you don’t search for strategies when doing poorly when seated at the 
poker table which will hopefully produce a higher win rate but which don’t 
exist. That is, consistency is one of the biggest challenges you will face 
in poker. 

One of the most frustrating aspects of poker is that you frequently don’t 
get to see what your opponents had, reinforcing the fear that you are 
being overrun by a slew of loose, aggressive players. So whenever one 
of these sessions occurs, keep the following in mind. 

1. When it seems like a group of players is ruthlessly running you over, 
they most likely are not. 

2. It’s far more likely that they are just lucky, catching a number of strong 
hands in a short time. 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Put another way, players frequently get frustrated at their extended run of 
bad luck and say things like “This guy is raising me again! The same guy! 
He has to be bluffing sometime!” And wile this may be true, deviating 
from what you know to be correct strategy is a dangerous game to play. 
However, we will often note that this is a potentially loose and aggressive 
opponent, and consider some slight adjustments. 

Notice above that the word “slight” was used. We’re careful not to take 
adjustments too far because over adjusting is a dangerous game. 

And why is this the case? If our opponent knows that we are making 
specific and drastic adjustments, especially against them, then we may 
be playing right into their game and find that we’re the one getting 
exploited instead of us exploiting them. Stated another way, avoid 
starting a war where things can get out of hand. Be careful when feeling 
frustrated or think that you are being run over, and remember to play 
your best using what you know are the proper strategies (with only a 
small number of adjustments), and you should do this win or lose. 

Expectation and the Large Short Term Luck 
Factor 

In our opinion, almost all poker mental game issues stem from three 
things: The large short term luck factor (which is often measured by the 
statistical formula for “standard deviation”), the fact that games like poker 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

which are based on probability theory can at times be counter-intuitive, 
and that to be a successful poker player you need to play well. However, 
of the three, the large short term luck factor seems to be the one that 
causes the most problems for the most players. 

If you’re a good player, expect to win. But in a game with a large short 
term luck factor, “expect to win” doesn’t mean that you’re be ahead every 
time you leave the poker table or turn off your computer. It means that in 
time you should be ahead, but sometimes it can be a long time even if 
you’re an expert player. 

And if this is not understood, you can be setting yourself up for eventual 
failure. So if we get all-in with a hand like the 

                                                                                     
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

versus the 

King of Hearts 

  & 

suffer another loss, and then get upset, it’s because we expected to win 
and probably need to improve our understanding of how strong the short 
term luck factor can be. 

But we also have our own personal expectations, and when starting out 
they should be the easiest to deal with. If you’re a beginner at something, 
then it is unreasonable to think you’ll be immediately successful. But as 
you approach and become an intermediate player, your expectations 
may change. That’s because by understanding how to play at a higher 
level, you may start to string together several winning sessions, may start 
to see how and why you have an edge, and may begin to see where the 
money you’re winning is coming from. 

Notice that it’s here where you may first develop unrealistic expectations 
as to how much money you will win and how easy it will be. This is 

                                                                                     


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

another aspect of the large short term luck factor and how it can play 
tricks on you. 

What this means is that our main purpose as poker players should be to 
work hard on improving our strategy and mostly play only when we feel 
we have the best of it in a given poker situation. It doesn’t mean that we 
can’t take a shot, but be aware that by continuing to take shots, the large 
short term luck factor may put us in a place we would prefer not to be in, 
and this is one aspect of controlling our mental game. 

Poker is a Game of High Skill, But Also a 
Lot of Short Term Luck 

Poker is a game of high skill, but as just pointed out, it’s also a game 
that contains a large amount of short term luck, and while we won’t get 
into the mathematics of it here, luck will dissipate over time while your 
skill won’t. So while both are important when looking at your results, 
especially when the total amount of play is not that great, there is no 
substitute for skill. It will always prevail as long as you have an adequate 
bankroll to survive the natural fluctuations of the game. So while in the 
short run luck is more likely to determine your results, in the end, your 
level of skill (whether you’re a winner or a loser) will determine your long 
term results. 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

The particularly tricky nature of poker, as it relates to humans, is that the 
short run can often feel like the long run. For instance, in the grand 
scheme of things, playing as many as 10,000 hands will usually not 
provide much statistical significance. (The exception is if you have an 
extremely large skill edge over your opponents.) That is winning players 
could easily lose and losing players could easily win over a sample of 
10,000 hands. Yes, a sample this size will grant some insight into 
someone’s strategy and winrate, but will be a shaky benchmark to 
measure against. 

10,000 hands seems like a lot of poker. If you are playing live, where you 
get 30 hands an hour, then we’re talking about 333 hours. If you play 
online and get 100 to 300 hands an hour, then it will take between 33 to 
100 hours to achieve. Can you imagine trying to succeed at something 
for 100 hours and failing, despite doing everything right? 

A few words on doing everything right: It is unreasonable and unrealistic 
to expect to always do everything right. No player has ever come close to 
always making the correct decision. And there are reasons for this. Three 
that come to mind are that poker is a game of incomplete information, 
that sometimes important poker concepts which you may need for a 
specific decision will seem to contradict each other and lead to a different 
decision, and that your opponents are often trying to trick you. 

However, keeping this in mind, we review our play vigilantly and even 
after being pros for the better part of a decade, we still find imperfections 
in our play that we work to improve upon. Poker is a game, but it’s also a 
continuous learning experience. Every session should be approached as 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

an opportunity to learn something as well as a reminder that we don’t 
know everything. 

Again, we want to stress that the mental game is more important in poker 
than most other mind games (and athletic sports) because of the luck 
factor. Poker is one of the few games where your short term result isn't 
highly correlated to skill. By contrast, imagine a game such as chess 
where the short term luck factor is small. Here the better player wins with 
a high frequency, and a great player will always beat an amateur. 

But in poker, this is not the case. Even the best players, (and we strongly 
feel we’re part of this group), will lose sometimes to horrible players. 
That’s the way poker is and it needs to be accepted to become a top 
poker player. (It’s also the hook that keeps many of the weaker players in 
action and is why the games are often good once you achieve expert 
status.) 

So judging your skill based only on your short term results can create a 
false but reinforced impression of your talent. If you play correctly and 
lose, then you may be emotionally or even logically reinforcing the idea 
that the play you made was wrong. Conversely, should you make the 
wrong play and win you, you may be reinforcing poor decisions. 

Therefore, to thrive at poker, it’s important to be objective about your 
results and resist the temptation to become results oriented, and yes, this 
is a difficult mindset to master. Poker can be emotionally challenging at 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

times and some otherwise very talented players have not survived 
because they couldn’t handle the natural fluctuations of the game. 

That’s because our minds aren’t designed to think about things in such 
aggregate terms. Most everyone has a breaking point. That is if things go 
poorly for some time, our brains may not be able to process the 
information of all the bad luck, get hung up, and tilt can set in. This is why 
gaining a strong understanding of how the large short term luck factor 
works is so important. Now when another bad beat comes, your brain will 
be able to process this information and move on to the next hand and 
you’ll still be able to play your best and won’t doubt your own abilities. 

Handling Pressure and a Few Other Things 

What separates the best players from the good and even bad players is 
their ability to handle pressure. Funny things happen to us 
psychologically and emotionally when money enters the equation. Being 
able to remain calm and deal with pressure by making purely objective 
decisions is how the best players create and maintain their edge over 
much of the competition. Those of you who are unable to do this will be 
only marginally successful at best, and at worst will go broke very quickly. 

Here’s an example. Suppose you lose half your bankroll and you now 
face the decision to move to a lower stakes game. If the decision is to 
stay at your current level, can you handle the pressure of possibly going 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

broke? or if you move down, can you handle the pressure of possible 
ridicule from other players who will now point out that your poker skills 
are not so hot? Poker has a way of making us feel uncomfortable on 
occasion, and those who can handle this type of pressure clearly have a 
leg up on those who don’t. 

However, it’s our experience that some amount of pressure at the poker 
table is good. For instance, if you’re playing in a game where the stakes 
are so small (for you) that it becomes too easy too gamble recklessly, 
then you probably need to move up where the pressure of the amount at 
stake will encourage your best play. And if this amount is not obtainable, 
you probably have mental game issues that are beyond this discussion. 

Another important idea that is related with a strong mental game is 
awareness. It’ll be difficult, especially in the beginning since there is a lot 
we need to think about during a hand. This will be particularly true as we 
are developing our strategy, and is a huge part of the reason to work out 
as much of our in-game strategy ahead of time as possible. In addition to 
what hands to play preflop or what hands to bet on the flop, we want to 
be able to reduce any unnecessary pressure and pay close attention to 
the more subtle details of a hand. 

As you become comfortable with more decisions, you can try to observe 
your thoughts and feelings as you play. Check in with yourself every 5 to 
10 minutes to see how you are feeling, why you feel this way, and 
whether your game is being affected in any way. For example, in the 
world of poker there is something known as “money management” 
(which is very different from bankroll management) where the goal is to 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

maximize the probability that you leave the table a winner. Of course this 
is usually done at the expense of lowering your long term expectation (or 
win rate), and if repeated often can be a serious leak in your game. 

Finally, poker intensifies many mental game mistakes. Fortunately, these 
type of errors are easy to fix. At least in theory they are. And usually the 
cure is to improve your understanding of all things poker including the 
short term luck factor, how poker can be counter-intuitive, and of course 
good strategic strategy. Then in time as your long term results become 
positive, your confidence and ability to always play well will be there. 

Mental game issues will vary widely in how they make you feel and the 
mistakes they lead you to make. One player may begin to play recklessly 
while another may lose their confidence and play timidly. Poor play can 
be caused by tilt, or it can be caused for other reasons such as searching 
better strategies (while at the table without thinking things through away 
from the table), or deciding that something else, such as getting revenge 
on a player who has raised you one time too many, is more important 
than maximizing your expectation. 

As previously stated, spending some time after a session thinking about 
what happened during a session can have much value. This applies to 
strategic ideas as well as aspects of the mental game. However, don’t go 
overboard. Keeping track of too many things can be a burden that can 
make poker more difficult and unenjoyable. But addressing a few 
important things after each session is certainly worthwhile. 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Warm-Up/Cool-Down Ritual 

There’s currently a fair amount of poker mental game literature which in 
our opinion is, to be polite, somewhat confused. And the idea of a 
warm-up/cool-down is certainly an example. 

What we think has happened is that ideas from the highly competitive 
sports world have also entered poker which is not a game that requires 
things like speed, timing, and coordination. 

Let’s be specific. In an athletic sport, a physical warm-up can be 
essential. This will not only help in reducing injuries, but it should also 
help in athletic execution and getting you completely focused so that you 
can play your best. But in poker, how important is this stuff? 

Well you certainly need to pay attention, but that’s not the same as hitting 
a 95 mile per hour fast ball or a 120 mile per hour serve on the tennis 
court. But will something like a warm up have the same sort of positive 
effect at the poker table? 

Keep in mind that to play poker better, you’ll need to play some of your 
hands differently and this new way of playing will need to be superior 
than the way you would have played them before. In an athletic sport, 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

there’s no question that a warm up will allow you to execute better than 
you would without the warm up. That’s why when you get to a football 
game early, you’ll see the teams going through their pregame routine 
which allows them to block, tackle, run, throw, catch, and so on better 
than they would without the warmup. But does something like this exist in 
poker which is mainly a knowledge game? We have our doubts. 

On the other hand, getting some exercise before your play certainly won’t 
hurt you, and of course the right amount of exercise is beneficial for good 
health. And if your ritual before you play was to review some hands, read 
a chapter in a poker book, review a poker forum, or simply just breathe 
and relax, that’s fine with us. And if playing online, at the start of your 
session perhaps only play half as many tables as you normally do would 
certainly be okay. 

After a session, you may want to take some notes, review a few hands, 
discuss some interesting hands with a friend, or just create a plan of 
attack for the next session. All of these should help you put poker to rest 
until it’s time to play again, and this should also help prepare you for the 
next session. 

Fitness 

We believe that physical fitness is an important aspect of a successful 
life, and when you go into today’s poker rooms, especially at the time of a 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

major tournament, one thing that you’ll notice is that many of the best 
players are also in good physical shape. But is this a legitimate statistical 
correlation? 

One person who has his doubts is Mason Malmuth in his book Real 
Poker Psychology and who spent many years working as a professional 
statistician. Mason points out that people who stay physically fit often 
also have well structured lives. That is these are the type of people who 
will study poker and spend the time necessary to become top players. 
Yes they may also be playing because poker is fun, but they’re well 
aware that it’s more fun to be a long term winner than a long term loser, 
and are willing to put the work in so that they maximize their chance of 
becoming an expert player. On the other hand, a couch potato who won’t 
find the time to exercise, probably won’t find the time to improve his 
poker game other than osmosis at the poker table. 

One area related to poker where being physically fit may be helpful (to 
poker) deals with the being mentally tired as opposed to physically tired. 
This is discussed in more detail in the next lab, so let’s just say here that 
if you have been putting much time in at the poker table, week after 
week, or perhaps many long days in a major tournament, you may begin 
experiencing being mentally tired, and we suspect that being physically 
fit may be helpful. 

So what’s the answer? While we certainly highly recommend physical 
exercise and agree that many top poker players are physically fit, it’s not 
necessarily a necessary condition to become a good poker player. But 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

we still recommend it just for the other long term benefits that a good 
exercise program can have. 

Poker Lab Home 

← Previous Lesson 

Next Lesson → 

UPSWING POKER 
© Copyright 2023 
Sitemap 
Responsible Gambling 
Terms of Service 
Contact 

UPSWING 

POKER 
Members 

Merch 
FAQ 
Contact 
Vincent Guarnieri 
TRAINING 
ARTICLES 
QUIZZES 
REVIEWS 
OUR PROS 
FREERESOURCES 
Home > Dashboard > The Poker Lab No Limit Simplified > Tilt and Mental Biases by 
Doug Polk & Ryan Fee 

 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

 Back 

Tilt And Mental Biases 

The Two Baskets of Poker 

Almost all games can be broken up into two parts or baskets to use a 
more precise term. They are “The Knowledge Basket” and “The 
Execution Basket.” 

For instance, suppose you’re a good tennis player, are on the court, and 
your opponent hits the ball over the net and now it’s your turn to hit it 
back. What do you do? 

Two things should happen. First, you instantly know what you want to do. 
That is, you’ll decide what spot on the court you want to hit the ball to, 
how hard you’ll want to hit it, how much and what kind of spin you’ll want 
to put on it, and so on. Notice that this falls into the knowledge basket. 
Next you’ll have to do this, and that requires speed, timing, and 
coordination which of course comes under the execution basket. 

Now let’s look at poker. It too can be thought of as having two baskets, 
knowledge and execution. But how important is speed, timing, and 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

coordination? While some expert players may argue that in certain spots 
where it’s necessary to “pull the trigger,” the execution basket does play 
a role, the vast majority of your decisions are based completely on 
knowledge and that is where we’ll be looking to make our mental game 
the strongest. 

The Three Negative States of Poker 

Virtually everyone reading this is familiar with the idea of tilt. But this is 
actually a more complex topic than just tilt. According to Mason Malmuth 
in his book Real Poker Psychology, there are actually three negative 
states that a poker player can enter into. Let’s define them and talk about 
them a little. 

A. Tilt: We’re all familiar with tilt and the definition that we’ll use is tilt 
occurs when a player loses his ability to think rationally, and this usually 
happens when information is presented that a player’s mind can’t 
successfully process. For instance, if your aces get beat several times in 
a row, this can be a tilt trigger because some players just can’t 
understand why this can happen, or perhaps why this happens only to 
them. But of course this can happen and does happen to everyone who 
plays poker, and a better understanding of the large short-term luck 
factor and the fact that many things based on probability theory can be 
counter intuitive can help to solve any tilt problems. That’s because with 
improvement in this area, your mind can begin to process information 
that it couldn’t process before. 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

B. Pseudo Tilt: Pseudo tilt occurs when a player decides that something 
is more important than maximizing your expectation when at the poker 
table. Usually this is seen when someone who is losing for the session 
decides that getting even in his short remaining time is more important 
than playing at his best, and thus they will begin to play much looser, 
sometimes more aggressively, and sometimes in a highly tricky manner 
that is not warranted by the current situation. Notice that playing like this 
will increase the probability of getting even for the session, but it should 
also lower your expectation and if pseudo tilt occurs every so often, the 
player can expect to have poorer long term results. Other forms of 
pseudo tilt can include locking up a win, getting revenge on an opponent, 
and a desire to brag about big wins. And notice that these incorrect 
decisions, unlike standard tilt, are done rationally. 

C. Searching: This is something that occurs to marginal players. What 
usually happens is that some players who in the long run struggle to get 
results much above break even are aware that a few of their opponents 
do much better than them. So what frequently happens is that on those 
nights where these marginal players are winning, they play their normal 
best game (which may not be that good but they don’t know this). But on 
their losing nights they’ll begin to search for other strategies, often trying 
to imitate what they see out of the best players. However, since their 
knowledge of poker strategy is not strong enough, they’ll tend to make 
negative expectation plays. Sometimes they’ll begin to play too loose or 
too aggressively, and other times they’ll do the opposite. But notice that 
this is not tilt since the decision to change their strategy while incorrect is 
still done rationally. 

Risk Aversion 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

As noted above, this is a form of pseudo tilt. The volatile nature of poker 
will sometimes leave you gun shy, and to be a good poker player you 
must have or develop a tolerance for risk and an understanding as to 
why it occurs. Occasionally, when on a losing streak you become less 
willing to bluff, value bet, or call because doing so in the past has not 
worked out well and it has been negatively reinforced. 

But what has really happened is that you are beginning to question your 
knowledge or understanding of what the correct strategy should be. This 
is why to be a successful poker player you need to understand not only 
how to play well but what the proper concepts are for any situation, and 
to also gain a strong understanding of how the large short-term luck 
factor can affect your short-term results and the fact that poker can be 
counter-intuitive in many spots. 

Over and Under Confidence 

A big problem occurs in poker when we are unable to distinguish how 
skillful we are and how much luck played a role in the outcome of a 
session. This can lead us to becoming overconfident when winning and 
under confident when losing. The former fosters unnecessary risk taking 
because of an inflated sense of how often we will win and can encourage 
of us to play in very tough games where our expectation will only be 
marginal at best, whereas the latter will lead to the avoidance of risk 
taking in situations when it would be profitable. 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Burn Out 

One of the great misconceptions in poker is that you can’t do well if tired. 
Let’s look at this a little more closely. 

Suppose you’ve been playing poker all day, are tired, but before leaving 
the poker room you spot an excellent game where if you were fresh your 
expectation would be high and there’s a seat open. Should you pass on 
this game because you are now tired? 

The answer is in most cases you shouldn’t if playing in good games is 
something that’s important to you. While you might not do (in the long 
run) as well in a spot like this if you were fresh, you should still expect to 
do fine. So what about being tired? 

One way to look at this is that there are two ways to be tired — physical 
and mental. And they are much different from each other. 

When physically tired, while you may want to go to sleep, you should be 
able to still think well. Thus passing up a good poker game can be a 
mistake. But if you were to stay up for two days straight, now you would 
be mentally tired and your poker decisions, as well as your results, can 
certainly deteriorate. 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Being mentally tired can also occur if you were to put in long hours week 
after week. While it’s difficult to say how many hours of poker over a long 
period of time may be too many, it’s our opinion that if you were to play 
50+ hours a week and keep doing this nonstop, then eventually you 
would be in a mental fog. Even 40 hours a week may be too much for 
some players (providing they keep it up) since poker requires the ability 
to make lots of tough decisions and the constant pressure of doing this 
can wear some poker players down. So while poker is exciting, 
challenging, and fun, it can also be long term taxing. That is while it’s 
important to understand the difference between being mentally tired and 
physically tired, keep in mind that if you do get mentally tired, taking a 
short break from poker can be worthwhile. 

Cognitive Biases or Understanding the 
Short-Term Luck Factor 

Poker is an objective and mathematical game, yet humans are subjective 
creatures. Cognitive biases occur when you use the sample of 
occurrences that happen to you and assume them to be fact. For 
instance, let’s say you get aces three times in a session and lose all 
three times. A cognitive bias would occur if you were to think that aces 
(a.k.a. the best hand in hold ’em by far) is a bad or weak hand. 

It’s also important to understand that poker has a large short-term luck 
factor and this is just one example, while an important one, of the 
problems that it can cause to an aspiring poker player. On the other 
hand, this large short-term luck factor is the hook that keeps many bad 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

players at the tables because they can remember their winning sessions 
or the big pots they won when they showed the better players how this 
game can be played. 

Also, keep in mind that statistical theory tells us that the large short-term 
luck factor will dissipate over time while your expectation should remain 
constant (providing your understanding of poker stays the same). So if 
your long term results are not what you think they should be, your 
strategic game probably needs some work. 

The Gambler's Fallacy 

It’s been red 9 times, so it has to be black next. This mistake occurs 
when independent events, such as a hand of poker, happen to favor one 
particular outcome in the short run, thus validating this outcome to either 
be unrealistically likely or unlikely to happen in the future. For instance, 
let's say that your flush draw missed the last three times. It may 
encourage you to think that “it has to happen this time” and to play your 
hand more aggressively. You may also think “I never get there with my 
flush draw,” forcing you to fold a hand incorrectly that should have been a 
call or a raise. 

Clearly this is another example of the large short-term luck factor at work 
in poker. Sometimes it can seem like you never make a hand and other 
times it can seem like you never miss. But that’s just the way poker is 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

and these short-term runs are no reason to get away from what you 
know to be good strategy. 

Confirmation Bias 

This is where you accept all evidence that confirms your preconceptions 
while ignoring everything that disproves them. This is common in all 
aspects of life, but it is particularly costly in poker due to the large 
short-term luck factor that can fool you into thinking that something is 
true when it’s not the case. 

This can be troublesome when assessing your own skill. It may be easy 
to convince yourself that you won because you outplayed your 
opponents, but when you lost it was because you were unlucky. And this 
sort of thought process is harmful because it may discourage you from 
improving if, in your mind, the only reason you ever lose is because you 
are unlucky. Both of us continue to work hard on our game to this day, 
and you should do the same. We have also noticed that this particular 
bias is extremely pervasive with low stakes live players. 

The Outcome Bias 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

One of the hardest to develop but most important mindsets in poker is 
being able to avoid fixating on results. The outcome bias occurs when 
you place too much emphasis on the outcome of hands, thus becoming 
results oriented, and of course you should now recognize that this is 
another example of the large short-term luck factor at work. 

The DunningKrueger Effect 

One of the great ironies of life is that sometimes stupid people walk 
around thinking they are geniuses, while some highly skilled people can 
be insecure about their abilities. This is called the DunningKruger Effect. 
The more skill you have, the less confidence you have in that skill 
because you are aware of your weaknesses and a lesser skilled person 
wouldn’t see these deficiencies at all. 

This effect is one of the reasons that poker is such a profitable game. 
Why? Because the game is so rich and complex unskilled players may 
not realize its depth, causing them to overestimate their abilities and 
simplify the game. People who accuse poker of being all luck or that it is 
mainly a “people game” are simply stating how little they actually know 
about it. 

The Sport Fallacies 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

If you go back to our first entry in this section, we talked about the two 
baskets of poker. Recently, many ideas related to the mental game have 
come into poker from the sports world. These can include things like 
relaxation techniques, certain types of warm ups, special diets, and 
showing gratitude for the good things in your life. 

While it’s our opinion that most of this stuff won’t hurt you, it won’t have 
much value either. But if it gets you to lock into this stuff and you neglect 
the process of improving your understanding of all things poker, then in 
the long run it can hurt a lot. 

Put another way, many of these ideas should help an athlete with things 
like speed, timing, and coordination because stress can be reduced and 
improved concentration (sometimes called focus) can perhaps occur — 
think about trying to hit a fast moving tennis ball. But also notice that 
these ideas from the sports world mainly help with the execution basket 
mentioned previously, and remember that poker is mainly a knowledge 
game that falls into the knowledge basket.. 

Poker Lab Home 

← Previous Lesson 

Next Lesson → 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

UPSWING POKER 
© Copyright 2023 
Sitemap 
Responsible Gambling 
Terms of Service 
Contact 

Transitioning from the ‘category system’ to a more ‘theory based’ strategy 

In this section of the module we are going to take a look at the main difference between these 
two different ways to play poker. We are going to talk about the simplified system of ranking 
your hands by strength, and transition to playing different scenarios according to how your entire 
range wants to play. To use a very common phrase, we are going to learn how to “play our 
range, not our hand.” 

I want to start off by talking about several different concepts, and how these concepts affect how 
we play our range. 

The ‘nut advantage’ – for those that are unsure of what this term means, it is essentially which 
player has more combinations of the strongest hands in their range. While you’d be forgiven for 
thinking that the preflop aggressor always has the nut advantage, there are many different 
scenarios in which the preflop caller will contain more combos of the nuts in their range. There 
are some instances in which the preflop caller will be the only player to contain any nutted 
combos in their range. Let’s take a look at several different scenarios… 

SRP – EP vs BB 

642r - as we can see from our preflop charts, the EP raiser has no 22/44/53s, whereas the BB 
has all these hands in their range. The BB also has more high equity hands like 54s, 64s, and 
52s. This means that, whilst the EP raiser has the strongest overpairs in his range, the nut 
advantage lies with the BB. We can take a quick look in the solver to see just how much this 
affects the UTG’s cbet strategy in this situation. As we can see, despite having around 53% 
equity, EP is almost never cbetting this texture. This is a perfect example of how the nut 
advantage affects our strategy as the preflop aggressor; in this instance, because of just how 
drastic the nut advantage is for the BB, the UTG player cannot cbet this board. 

 
  
  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

KQ8r – in this instance, it is of course EP who has the nut advantage, as the BB will 3b 
KK/QQ/KQs almost always. Whilst this is an obvious example of who has the nutted advantage, 
it does give an insight into how the solver will play when it has a nutted advantage. If we look at 
the solve, we can clearly see that the solver is betting very frequently, and that it is using a 
larger sizing. There are some instances, like this one, where we will use a larger sizing in certain 
spots to press our nut advantage. I have re-run this sim with only 75% for the BB, and we can 
see that it still bets extremely wide, even with only one size. 

3BP – SB vs BTN 

AK8r – as we can see from our preflop charts, the SB has a very significant nut advantage on 
this board. The BTN will 4b AA/KK/AKs always, and almost always with AKo. The BTN does 
have a small amount of AK and 88, but the SB has these hands at a much higher frequency 
along with their AKs/AA/KK. The solver’s strategy in this spot is to bet extremely wide (as 
before), but it favours a 33% size this time. 

854fd – if we refer back to our preflop charts, we can see that in this instance the nut advantage 
lies with the BTN, although it is a little closer in this example. The SB 3bets 88 always and 55 
sometimes, but the BTN has 88/55/44/76s/54s always, and again has some high equity hands 
like K6s and 76s always. 

We have seen the solver use two different sizes when it has the nut advantage as the preflop 
aggressor, in the SRP IP it preferred 75%, but in the 3BP OOP it preferred 33%. It might feel a 
little daunting knowing when to use a small size and when to use a larger size when you have 
the nut advantage, but we’ll cover the difference between those two scenarios as we go along 
(hint – it’s to do with being IP and OOP!). 

The ’equity advantage’ – this is really quite simple, whichever player has more equity with their 
range holds the equity advantage. Again, the preflop aggressor doesn’t always have an equity 
advantage (and that will dictate how we play). Please also note that if a player holds the nut 
advantage, they don’t necessarily hold the equity advantage (we can refer back to 642r to see 
this). 

  
  
  
  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

For this subsection I am going to use some different spreadsheets that I have used in previous 
modules. We are going to look at BTN vs MP SRP. As we can see from our spreadsheet, the 
equity advantage is nowhere near as clear as you may think. The ‘A high’ boards are a great 
example of how skewed it can be. If we look at the ‘middling/low’ boards, we can see that, even 
though the OOP player has many of the nutted hands, the IP player has a clear equity 
advantage on ALL of these boards. Furthermore, we can see from this spreadsheet just how 
defined our strategy is as a result of this shift in equity. 

Using the category system on a board like T64fd, we would always bet our category one 
hands (JJ-AA, sets, top pairs with a good kicker). As we can see, this board is not good 
for our range, and we are going to shift our strategy to thinking about how our range 
wants to play, instead of just playing our hand. 

General Bet Sizing Schemes – the category system gives us a great blueprint for categorizing 
our hands by strength, but it doesn’t go into detail about different sizes we want to use. I want us 
to transition to a strategy that is based on the texture of the flop, and not based on the strength 
of our hand. For some of us that might feel a little unusual at first, but remember that we are 
going to start focusing on how our range wants to play, and not our hand. We will only have one 
bet size on any flop, and we want to get into the habit of learning what the preferred bet size is 
based on the flop. 

For example, if we open the BTN, the BB defends, and the flop is Q72r, our preferred bet size 
here is 33%. It doesn’t matter if we are betting with AA, QQ, JTs, Q4s, A5o, K5s etc. We have 
one size on this flop, and it is always 33%. Another example, if we open the BTN, the BB 
defends and the flop is 852fd, our preferred sizing in this situation is 75%. If we are betting with 
88, T8s, A4s, K9o, QJs, 33 etc, we only ever bet 75%. In the following parts of this module we 
will learn what flops prefer what sizes (and why). 

After we are familiar with what bet sizes are preferred on what flops, we will start to think about 
the frequency at which our range wants to bet. In the two examples above, we bet Q72r around 
95% of the time, but on 852fd we are betting around 50% of the time. The Q72 type boards are 
relatively simple, and we can simplify further and just bet our entire range a lot of the time, 
however the boards like 852fd that we cbet less frequently, we will need to learn what our 
betting range looks like, and what our checking range looks like too. 

  
  
  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

We will get to a place where we have a three-step-thought-process of “what is my 
preferred sizing on this board” ---> “how often does my range want to bet” ----> “how 
often does my hand want to bet”. 

Link to spreadsheet with  flop and equity: 
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vTM2fLrmxhXG7Iu7OvqPLiBU3fLYnqYsxg_
Tpi037tat48qUL6MkfNbgHaMgZI2iIYDuQZlZ7a9zmNA/pubhtml 

2 – IP as PFR vs BB 

In this subsection we are going to take a look at two different flops in detail BTN vs BB SRP, and 
dissect what our strategy looks like. Before we look at the flops in question, I want to use a 
spreadsheet from a previous module that I made so that we can start to get an idea of what our 
overall strategy looks like in this specific spot. 

I have covered this in depth in my previous modules for Upswing so I’m not going to spend too 
much time going over it. As we can see, the solver is a bit erratic with regards to its preferred 
sizing in each spot. We need to view the data and create our own strategy that we think is most 
optimal. The reason I say this is because it is extremely important advice going forward, and for 
anyone who is new to solvers/this method of studying, it is really important that we do not try 
and replicate the solver. We want to use the information at hand as a guide and come up with a 
simplified way of playing. 

 For example, if we look at the ‘broadway low’ section of our spreadsheet, if we look closely we 
can see that the solver likes to use 33% on a board like K62, but a board like K87 or J75 that 
has more straight draws, the preferred sizing is 50%. These are the trends that we are looking 
for when we are studying. 

Our betting frequencies and sizing schemes do change quite a bit depending on which position 
we open from, but I have covered the differences in previous modules, so after you have 
finished this module, please do move on to the other modules. One covers cbetting IP, and one 
covers cbetting OOP. 

Let’s take two different boards and break down exactly what our strategy looks like on the BTN. 
I want to compare our solver-based strategies with our previous “category system”, but we won’t 

 
  
  
 
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

do this in this part of the module, as they are really quite similar when IP. A quick reminder of 
what our thought process will soon look like… 

We will get to a place where we have a three-step-thought-process of “what is my 
preferred sizing on this board” ---> “how often does my range want to bet” ----> “how 
often does my hand want to bet”. 

Please also remember that on certain boards like Q42 and J62 it is completely okay to bet your 
entire range. If the solver is betting around 80% of the time, you can just simplify and bet 
everything. 

Q65fd – we are betting around about 60% of the time on this board. In any scenario where we 
are betting between 40% and 80% of our range, there are several categories of hands that go 
into our checking range. These are our weakest top pairs, our immediate underpairs to the 
highest card, and our complete air that have no/minimal backdoor draws. Note that on 
Q65fd there are very few hands that have no backdoor draws, so we can use K83fd as a great 
example of hands like J6s, Q4s type hands that so rarely want to bet. There are two other types 
of hands that we want to check, and these are our hands with reasonable showdown, and 
our weakest 2nd/3rd pairs. As we can see from the solver, hands like AT and KJ are getting 
checked much more than a hand like JTs. 

863fd – whilst this is a very different board to the above, we still want to check the same types of 
hands that we normally would. We can clearly see a trend developing on what our checking 
range looks like. This applies to all SRP cbets IP. Even though the equity is closer on this board, 
the nutted advantage is still with the IP player (both players have all the sets, top two pair, but IP 
has the strongest overpairs here – sometimes the overpairs don’t count towards the nutted parts 
of our range but on this board it does). On these lower textures, it’s imperative that we follow the 
rule of “the more connected the flop, the more frequently we check”. 

3 – OOP as PFR as BB 

Similarly, we are going to look at two different textures and compare what our strategy looks like 
from the BB. Before we delve into two boards, I want to briefly talk about a difference in our 
strategy from the BB vs BTN and vs MP; when the BTN opens and BB defends, we have two 
very wide ranges going to a flop, whereas when MP/UTG opens and BB defends, these are two 
relatively narrow ranges going to the flop. This means that BB vs BTN, we have more TPs on a 

  
  
  
  
  
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

board like K72 or J43, and therefore we raise more frequently for a smaller size (more TPs in 
our range = less polarised). BB vs BTN we defend as low as K7o, but BB vs MP we don’t have 
anywhere near as many top pairs in our range, and therefore we are raising a lot less frequently, 
for a larger, more polarizing size. 

K63r – if we think about our category system, we would assume that 33, 66, K6s and K3s would 
be our main category one hands, however BB vs BTN we need to widen our category one 
hands a little, and include hands like KQo/KJs with a BDFD. Our value range is easy to work 
out, and while our bluffing range looks a bit daunting in the solver, we can keep it nice and 
simple. Instead of raising hands like Q4s or A5o, we can simply choose our highest equity bluffs 
and keep it simple. All OESDs, and our gutshots with a BDFD work perfectly. For some nice 
board coverage purposes, we can also include some bottom pair combos with a BDSD/BDFD. If 
we compare this board and K74fd, our bluffing range looks very similar here; we want high 
equity bluffs like A2ss, A6ss, OESDs, combo draws, and again some bottom pairs with 
backdoor draws. 

863fd – I want us to still think about the category system for this specific flop, but as we’ll see in 
the solver, our category one hands play extremely differently based on several factors. Let’s 
work out what our category one hands are here; they would be 88/66/86s/33, which is not that 
wide to be honest. If we were to be using the category system, we would raise our category one 
hands here always. Switching to a more theory based strategy, we can actually see in the solver 
that we don’t raise these hands very often at all. It’s really important that we understand the 
reasons behind this. Firstly, on a board like K63, our opponent has way more top pairs in his 
range, which means we can raise our category one hands almost always because he is going to 
continue so much more often. Secondly, and most importantly, our opponent’s cbet size dictates 
our raising frequencies; when people bet smaller, we get to raise more often, but vs larger bet 
sizes we want to be raising less frequently. If we were to force the BTN to use an incorrect size 
of 33%, we will see that our raising frequency goes from 6% to 15%, which is an unbelievable 
difference. 

Another spreadsheet: 
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vQej12vMR88uwu4qnLGhW3RRu4E-6O0V
E0o3-ZFWc5LbmqGBuioMk2GfGUFybThjOQ9POOQ94S_A_47/pubhtml 

OOP As Preflop Raiser Vs BTN in SRP 

Again, I am going to raid a previous module I have done for UpswingPoker. We are going to 
look at two different boards, and compare our category strategy to our newer strategy. I am 
going to choose MP vs BTN for this part. 

T93fd – so we’re going to start with the lower board this time. Again, let’s start off by working out 
our category one hands. We open TT/99/T9s in MP always, and 33 sometimes. I think AA-QQ 
could also be classed as category one hands here too. Again, with our previous system these 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

hands would be bet always. As we can see from the solver, our entire range wants to bet so 
very infrequently here. This is quite a shift from the category system, and again, it’s really 
important that we understand why this is. We can use the spreadsheet from my previous 
module to see that the middling/low boards all get played very passively OOP. The reason for 
this lies in the equity columns; as we can see we are doing really poorly on these boards, even 
as the preflop aggressor. The reason for this is that our range is relatively wide here (opening 
22% on average), and the BTN’s range is quite narrow (around 5.5%). We therefore have quite 
a lot of air in our range compared to the BTN, and therefore our equity goes down. Another very 
important reason for us checking so much OOP is because we are OOP, and we want to cbet a 
lot less overall (there are so few boards where we bet really wide). OOP + a minimal equity 
advantage = an extremely wide checking frequency on these boards. We generally simplify our 
strategy and check our entire range on these T high and below boards. 

KJ3r – as mentioned above, we want to play more passively when we are OOP, however there 
are certain types of boards that we can still bet really quite wide. These are going to be double 
broadway boards that are quite disconnected. A board like KJ3 or QJ4 are really quite 
disconnected, but a board like KJ9r (with a flopped straight possible) or QT6fd (which is 
deceptively connected with all of its gutshots and FDs). As we can see from our spreadsheet, 
the data does appear a little erratic. All we can do is come up with our own simplifications as 
best we can. Note that we get to bet much wider on Kxx than Qxx because we open hands like 
K7s but not Q7s (so have more top pairs in our range). If we refer back to what we learned in 
the IP section of this module, the three types of hands that we check are the same: our weakest 
TPs, our immediate underpairs to the highest card, and our complete air. There is a fantastic 
example of our complete air on this board; 54s can turn so many straight draws, so it bets 
almost always. 65s can turn some straight draws, but not as many, so it bets a little less, and 
76s can turn so few straight draws, so it just never bets. In game, ask yourself how much equity 
your hand can turn, and if the answer is a lot you can bet your hand really quite wide. 

5 IP As Preflop Caller On BTN 

As we’ve just seen, there are certain boards that are good for the OOP player, and certain 
boards that are bad for the OOP player. This means that the boards that are good for the OOP 
player are bad for the IP player, and the boards that are bad for the OOP player are good for the 
IP player. This may seem obvious once it has been said, but this helps us to think about what 
our strategy will be like on certain textures. If our opponent should bet a lot on KJ3r, our strategy 
will clearly be to do a lot of checking back when checked to. On the flipside, if 632 is a bad 
board for our opponent, then our strategy will involve a lot of stabbing here. 

 
 
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

We’re going to look at two boards that are quite different in texture, but very similar in equity for 
the IP player. This will give a great insight into the difference between our differing strategies 
depending on the texture. 

743r – MP opens 33/44/77/65s pure, but BTN doesn’t defend these hands 100% of the time. 
This means that the OOP player has the nut advantage here, but given that 1) he is out of 
position, and 2) we have the equity advantage, OOP is forced to check a lot on this board. As 
you can imagine, we do a lot of stabbing here as the IP player. We want to stab hands like 76s, 
55, A7s, our marginal one pair hands that want to mainly get value, but also a little bit of 
protection. In a spot like this where we are stabbing quite frequently with so much of our range, 
we choose a 33% size. 

A62fd – Similarly to the above board, the IP player has a small equity advantage here. Our stab 
size, however, is a much more polarizing 75%, and we stab at a much lower frequency. The 
reason for this is that our more marginal one pair hands are not betting anywhere near as often 
as they are on a board like 743. Look at our weaker top pairs and our middling PPs. There’s so 
much less value to be had here, so we bet less, and when we bet less frequently, we use a 
larger stab size. 

That’s a great insight into our sizing scheme, and as we’ve seen we still bet all of our category 
one hands here at almost pure frequency (and we are going to simplify and bet our category 
one hands here always). The trend that we have seen so far is clear; in SRPs when we are IP, 
we are betting all of our category one hands always, and a lot of our category two hands, and 
even our category three and four hands where relevant. When we are OOP, however, we must 
take the previously mentioned factors into consideration before we decide to bet or raise our 
category one hands. 

6 3BP IP as PFR board 

As we have seen from our SRP strategy, we are never checking our category one hands when 
we are IP (and even betting a lot of our category two/three/four hands when the board is 
extremely favourable for us). This trend is going to continue in 3 bet pots for specific boards, but 
there are some boards where we do have to play more passively with our category one/two 
hands. We also do a lot of cbetting in 3bet pots, even on the boards that are not as good for us 
as others. What I want to do for this section is take a look at two different board types, and talk 
about our sizing schemes/betting frequencies on each. I’m going to use BTN vs CO to keep 
both players’ ranges nice and wide. 

  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Boards that are good for the IP player – there are a lot of boards that we can simplify and bet 
our entire range on. Any K high/Q high/J high board is great for us, and we keep our strategy 
nice and simple, and bet 33% with our entire range. If we look at our spreadsheet, we can see 
that we aren’t betting the A high boards as much as you might think. The really disconnected 
boards like A83r and A62r are getting bet around 70% or so, but the FD boards and the more 
connected A87 type boards are not flops we want to bet too often. Let’s take a look at one in 
particular and break down why that is… 

A65r – there are several reasons why we want to check more often on a board like this. Firstly, 
let’s talk about protection. On Q62r, our 77-JJ region benefits from cbetting to protect from Kx 
and Ax turns. On A high boards, there isn’t really any protection gained from bad overcard turn 
cards. Secondly, whilst we do have a significant equity advantage, our opponent has more 
flopped top pairs on A high flops as opposed to K/Q/J high flops. On Q62r your JJ is much less 
likely to run into top pair than it is on A62r. Lastly, on Q62r we have a lot of bluffs that have nice 
equity. We have a lot of A5s/AJs that can turn a bunch of straight draws/FDs/has an overcard, 
but on Axx our higher equity bluffs are fewer and far between. All these factors mean that we 
cannot cbet as wide on A high boards as we might have initially thought. The general trend is 
that when the board is wetter/more connected we have to check more frequently. On a board 
like A83r we can bet really quite wide, but on boards with FDs/SDs/both, we can’t cbet as much; 
there are many more hands that will continue on a wetter board, and we have less fold equity, 
so can’t bet as much. 

We are going to look at one specific board in a moment, but I want us to return back to our 
spreadsheet and analyse a general trend for the lower boards (10 high or lower). The solver 
likes to split between using a 50% and a 75% bet size here, but for simplicity I think using 50% 
is fine (note that using 33% on these lower textures is not an optimal strategy). As we can see 
from our sheet, there is a very clear trend: the wetter/more connected the flop, the more 
frequently we check. There is a huge difference between how we play T96fd and T83r. The 
reason for this is that our opponent holds the nut advantage on many of these flops, and also 
that there are a lot of bad turn cards for us, so we like to pot control a little more. We can see 
that we are supposed to check extremely often on the 6 high and below boards. 

732fd – I have purposefully chosen this flop as it is quite ‘in-the-middle’ of these middling/low 
textures. We don’t quite bet as wide as we would on T42r, but we don’t check as much as we 
would on 654fd, so it’s a nice in-between example. Our category one hands here are really quite 
narrow; given we have one set and no 2pairs, it would be 77/QQ/KK/AA. As we can see, the 
solver bets these hands at a high frequency, but not always. The reason it checks some of them 

  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

is because of how narrow our betting range is; if we were betting here 70% with our range we 
would bet our nutted hands always. Let’s use 875fd as another board we can analyse. As we 
can see, the BTN is supposed to check back virtually everything because of how bad a board 
this is for them. Whilst that is a strategy we can build towards, it’s not something we can 
implement straight away without learning first. We want to look for trends and make 
simplifications to our strategy, and the strategy is clearly that we want to check more often on 
the boards that are extremely connected… 

T42r – betting 80% of our range, we bet our category one hands always, and our category 
two/three/four hands quite often 

732 – betting 50% of our range, we bet our category one hands quite often, and our category 
two hands quite infrequently 

875fd – betting 2% of our range in theory, we want to bet our category one hands infrequently 
along with some of our higher equity bluffs. 

The summary to this, and it is very important, is that the nut advantage/equity advantage lies 
with the OOP player on these lower/middling textures, and it dictates how often the IP player 
can cbet. 

Please also note that this applies to BTN vs CO, where the two ranges are really quite wide. If 
we think about a spot like MP vs UTG, where UTG doesn’t have sets/flopped straights at 
anywhere near as high a frequency, and MP has a lot less air in their range, MP would therefore 
get to cbet much more than what we have seen above! 

Spreadsheet: 

https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12OT7f3t4BK6EiYYk6k2MMABoQT5P-cUA/edit#gid=5
23385011 

7 OOP as PFC in 3BP 

  
  
  
  
  
 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Similarly to our SRP OOP subsection, if we are transitioning away from the category system, we 
will once again have some situations where we are not check/raising our category one hands at 
a pure frequency. We’re going to determine when that is, and more importantly, why that is. 

K85fd – if we refer back to the SRP part of the module, you’ll remember that we could x/r a 
board like this at a high frequency with our nutted hands because 1) our opponent has so many 
top pairs in their range that it’s more likely they continue, and 2) our opponent was using a 
smaller cbet size, and we get to check/raise more often vs a smaller cbet size. Similarly, to 
some examples that we’ve seen, our category one hands also include our TPTK, which in this 
instance is KQ. I also want to talk about some hands that may be perceived as category two 
hands. You might think that a hand like 77hd would be a completely fine call here, but as we can 
see, the solver is pure folding it. This is a really common leak that people have OOP in 3 bet 
pots, and it’s something that we can plug quite easily by starting to fold our really marginal PPs 
that are 3rd pair/4th pair with no backdoors. You’ll see that 99 is basically always continuing, 
and that’s simply because 77 and below are all losing to 8x, but 99 is ahead. 

Let’s break down our category 3 hands here. This is a really common trend that serves us well 
in SRPs and 3bps. As we can see, our AQcc/AJcc/ATcc raise very infrequently, but our NFDs 
with the lowest kicker are our main bluff raising candidates. The reason for this is that AQcc 
blocks QJcc/QTcc/Q9cc, but A3cc doesn’t block any inferior FDs, and the solver loves to get 
value with NFDs vs weaker FDs. In SRPs we would also have hands like K2cc as well to raise 
with at a very high frequency. The solver also likes to use some bottom pairs with no BDFD at 
some frequency, but if we’re uncomfortable with that/unsure of how to proceed on turns we can 
simply raise our higher equity category three hands like those mentioned FDs and of course 
some OESDs/combo draws. 

732fd – as we can see, we are raising our category one hands (only really sets here) at a high 
frequency, but not quite as high as the K85fd board. As mentioned, our opponent has less TPs 
in his range, which is the reason for not check/raising at as high a frequency. Our category two 
hands like to do some raising for protection/value here, and the same rule of thumb applies to 
our FDs in terms of favouring the FDs that can dominate other FDs. 

8 3BP OOP as Preflop Aggressor 

I’m really hopeful that the general trend will be quite clear here. There are going to be boards 
that are really good for us as the preflop aggressor, and we get to bet these extremely often. 

 
 
 
 
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

There are some boards that are so good for us that even if we have a category four hand, we 
get to bet it. On the flipside, there are some boards that are quite poor for us, and we have to 
play differently compared to how we normally would with our category system, particularly OOP. 

I’ve mentioned this several times already, but it’s definitely worth repeating at this stage of the 
module – we want to transition from a strategy that involves using sizes/frequencies based on 
our hand strength to a strategy that revolves around how good or bad the board is for our entire 
range, and taking it from there. 

Instead of taking up time with a board like KJ4r, let’s remember that K high, Q high, 
double broadway boards, and high paired boards are extremely good for us, and we get 
to bet very wide for 33%. Let’s instead spend our time looking at boards where we don’t 
bet our entire range, and subsequently use larger betsizes. 

962fd – there’s a relatively loose rule of thumb when it comes to playing 3b pots: high boards 
are great for the aggressor, middling boards are reasonable for the aggressor, lower boards are 
not as good for the aggressor, with the general trend on the middle/low boards being that the 
more connected the board, the less good it gets for the preflop aggressor. This type of board is 
a middling board, but not as connected as some other boards can be, and therefore we get to 
bet wider than we would on something like T76 or 652. As a result, we get to bet very wide on 
this board. We’re not quite range betting, so we do mix in some low frequency checks with our 
category one hands (66, 99, QQ-AA). The beauty of being OOP here is that we get to 
check/raise these hands. Our category two hands like 88, TT, JJ, Q9s are betting essentially 
always for protection. Note that on these J high/T high/9 high boards we are favouring a 50% 
cbet size. It’s really important that we are not using a 33% cbet size on a board like this 
OOP, as our opponent will get to float us so unbelievably wide, and make our lives a 
misery OTT. 

753r – before we look at our strategy, please note that the optimal cbet size on 8 high and below 
textures is 75%. I have purposefully chosen this texture because, whilst it is a very 
low/connected flop, there are no flopped straights possible, and there are no FDs possible. With 
that in mind, we can see that the SB is supposed to check here around 60% of the time. If we 
were to choose something like 632fd our checking frequency would be higher. The lower/more 
connected the flop, the more frequently we check! 

  
  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

We’re doing a lot of checking here, and that involves a variety of hands, so I want to focus on 
what we do after we check. Let’s break it down into two different categories… 

When the flop goes check/check – as we can see, after the flop goes check/check, we are 
actually supposed to do a lot of checking again on lower cards. Our betting frequency increases 
on overcards to the board, and the Tx-Kx region gets bet the most. As for our sizing, we are 
leading out for 133% pot. The reason for this is that 1) our range checks so much on the flop 
that we still have strong hands in our range, and therefore can support this size, and 2) these 
turn cards are really good for us. 

When we check, and IP stabs – this might initially look really quite daunting, but we’re looking 
for trends/simplifications that make things really quite simple. Our value is very easy to work out, 
we check/raise our category two hands (high category 2, low 1) virtually always, and our 
category one hands at a high frequency. The reason we don’t raise our category one hands 
always (55/77/AA) is simply because they need no protection, and we want to allow our 
opponent to bluff into us on a variety of runouts. In terms of what our category three hands do 
here, it’s really quite easy to work out what hands do/don’t want to raise. We have very few 
natural bluffs here (natural = high equity like FDs/OESDs etc), so we want to check/raise hands 
that can turn equity. Look at our T8s for example, it can turn so much equity on a variety of turn 
cards, and that is what we’re looking for when we have no natural bluffs. The more equity we 
can turn, the higher our x/r frequency. T8s, T9s, Q9s can all check/raise the flop, pick up equity, 
and continue to barrel when they do so, but KQs/KTs can not turn anywhere near as much 
equity, and therefore the solver does not check/raise these hands. 

Remember we are not pure checking 753r, so we need some bluffs to cbet the flop with, and 
this is a really great rule to remember – our flop cbet category three hands and our flop 
check/raise category three hands are relatively similar; we are looking for hands that can turn 
straight draws and flush draws. 

9 3BP IP as the Preflop Caller 

This part of the module isn’t going to be as long as the others and the reason for this is that we 
don’t really play much of a raising range IP in 3bet pots. OOP we very much have to, because 
our nutted hands don’t want to check/call and allow our opponent to check back the turn, but IP 

  
  
  
 
 
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

we get to dictate what happens if OOP checks the turn. Let’s take a look at two different boards 
and talk about a few different things. 

753r – as we know, our opponents should be playing a high check frequency on a board like 
this. Let’s take a look at what our stabbing range looks like when checked to on the flop. Given 
we know that this board is not great for OOP and they use a larger bet size when cbetting, we 
can work out that it is a pretty good board for us, and we want to stab wider as a result, and 
therefore our stab size is 33%. We want to stab hands that can turn equity, similarly to the 
OOP’s cbet and check/raise strategy. It’s really important that we are stabbing quite wide in this 
spot. 

We do play some raises in this spot, and it’s extremely ABC what our raises are. We raise our 
overpairs (the stronger ones the most), and any high equity bluff we have like A6s/A4s/A8s. 
When our raising range is narrow, it is very ABC. 

962fd – similarly to the above board, we do a lot of stabbing for 33% when checked to in this 
situation. I want us to look at our flatting range on this texture when our opponent cbets. We get 
to float really wide with certain suited broadway combos that have backdoor straight/flush 
draws, and also the right type of AJo/AQo combos. Let’s take a look at our turn strategy with 
these floats. If we look at the 4d turn we can see that we love to stab really wide when checked 
to with our no equity bluffs. The reason for this is that a hand like KJhh doesn’t want to bet, then 
get shoved on, and have to call it off. It prefers to check back and realise its equity for cheaper. 
Whereas if we float KJcc OTF, we stab the turn, we get shoved on, we are happy to bet/fold our 
minimal equity. 

We will get to a place where we have a three-step-thought-process of “what is my 
preferred sizing on this board” ---> “how often does my range want to bet” ----> “how 
often does my hand want to bet”. 

If you have nut advantage: maybe try to press this advantage by using slightly higher bet size, 
so bluffs r more successful and build more money for nutted hands 

Upswing bet sizing link: 

https://upswingpoker.com/bet-size-strategy-tips-rules/#betrules3 

Video explaining size well: 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dVZ1CdESSTw 

  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

To succeed longterm be focused on learning and not money/!!! 

- 

If you wanna make money, gotta improve or others will take ur money. IMPROVE 
AND LEARN ALWAYS 

Advice: its one thing to know what your doing, and its another thing to do it. You struggle 
(vincent) with this, so need to replicate what you know to in game 

UPSWING 

POKER 
Members 

Merch 
FAQ 
Contact 
Vincent Guarnieri 
TRAINING 
ARTICLES 
QUIZZES 
REVIEWS 
OUR PROS 
FREERESOURCES 
Home > Dashboard > The Poker Lab No Limit Simplified > Making Adjustments in a 
10,000 Hand Sample <i>by Ryan Fee</i> > Day 1 – Hand Review 

← Back To Lesson 

Day 1 - Hand Review 

Day 1 - Hand Review Notes 

 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Collapse 

Hand 1 (00:00) 

Collapse 

Hero is in the BB with A♣ K♠. 
SB opens to $1.25. Hero raises to $4.50. SB calls. 

Flop ($9): Q♣ J♥ Q♦ 
SB checks. Hero checks. 

Turn($9): 4♣ 
SB bets $4.27. Hero calls. 

River ($17.54): 4♠ 
SB checks. Hero bets $20. SB calls and wins the pot with two pair: 
queens and jacks (J♦ 9♦) 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Analysis 

In this blind versus blind 3-bet pot, AK plays more effectively as a 
check on the flop. We will have a number of value combos here 
(QQ, JJ, AQ, KQ, AA, KK, AJ, KJ), which we need to balance with 
bluffs as well. AK falls somewhere in between, and therefore plays 
best as a check. 

We would 3-bet a relatively wide range in this pre-flop spot, which 
means we have plenty of hands weaker than AK to use as bluffs. 
Good hands to bluff this flop with include suited 
connectors/gappers such as T9, 89 and T8. Additionally, checking a 
semi-strong hand like AK here helps us protect our flop checking 
range. 

Our opponent indicated weakness on the turn, which we can attack 
with an overbet on the river. Their line of betting small on the turn 
and checking river implies that their range is not particularly strong. 
By overbetting, we can put a large portion of that range in a difficult 
spot. 

By doing this with our strong hands as well (AJ+), we can extract 
maximum value from our opponent when they make the hero call 
with J9! 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Hand 5 (07:13) 
Collapse 
Hero is in MP with A♣ Q♦. 
UTG limps. Hero raises to $2.25. UTG calls. 

Flop ($5.25): A♦ 8♣ 3♥ 
UTG checks. Hero bets $3.32. UTG raises to $6.64. Hero calls. 

Turn ($18.53): T♣ 
UTG bets $5.03. Hero calls. 

River ($28.59): K♠ 
UTG bets $7. Hero raises to $36.08 and is all-in. UTG calls and mucks 
hand (A♥ 7♠). 

Analysis 

Our opponent in this hand was tagged as a fish and we took a very 
exploitative line possible to extract maximum value. 

Given that our opponent limp-calls at the start of the hand, we can 
eliminate AK from their range with some level of certainty. This means 
that we only lose to two pair, of which there are only 18 likely combos on 
this board (AT, A8, and A3), but at the same time there are 56 combos of 
one-pair Ax hands which we beat. 

Because of our opponent’s small turn and river bet sizing, as well as the 
perceived weakness of our opponent’s range given the limp-call, we can 
exploitatively jam our AQ for value on this river. While it may seem like a 
‘risky’ strategy, it makes sense (and money) when we are up against an 
opponent as weak as this one. 

Day 1 - Database Review Notes 
Collapse 
Day 1 – Database Review 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

We should start by breaking down some stats gathered from our first 
day at the tables to get a sense of the general tendencies found in the 
player pool. 

You can do this by generating a report for all players in the ‘My Reports’ 
section of PokerTracker. One stat in particular stands out when we take 
a look at at our 1000 hand sample: 

■  The steal success % in this player pool is fairly low so far 

The steal success % of the player pool varies between 25-36% by 
position, with the SB being an exception at 53%. This suggests that our 
opponents play a wider range of hands relative to similar stakes at other 
sites ($50nl zoom, for example). 

Now, lets turn around to analyze my own stats for the day: 

■  I played really loose pre-flop 

Opening to 2.2x, my raise first-in % was quite loose, raising 20% of 
hands from EP and 70% from the SB. 3-betting is pretty infrequent at 
these stakes, so I can open a wide range with little threat of having to 
fold to a re-raise. 

■  My won when saw flop % was relatively low 

My won when saw flop (WWSF) % came in at 49% - lower than expected, 
but this may be an indicator of a loose-passive field with lots of 
multi-way pots. 

While having high WWSF and hands won percentages can be a good 
indicator of success, you shouldn’t change your play style to try and 
increase them. Instead, you should do your best to play as profitably as 
possible, and hopefully these stats will come as a result. 

 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Hero is in the BB with A♦ 8♣. 
SB raises to $1.50. Hero calls. 

Flop ($3): 2♣ 5♥ 9♣ 
SB bets $1.90. Hero calls. 

Turn ($6.80): 6♠ 
SB checks. Hero checks. 

River ($6.80): 4♠ 
SB checks. Hero bets $9.50. SB calls and wins the pot with a pair of tens 
(T♦ T♠). 

Analysis 

In this hand, we go for an overbet bluff on the river after getting 
favourable runout for our range versus our opponent’s line. They would 
almost certainly bet the turn with their sets and straight combos (87 and 
43) on such a connected board, meaning their range is capped— 
medium-strength at best. Overbetting the river puts most that capped 
range into a tricky spot. 

It can be easy to get discouraged after a high-risk overbet bluff gets 
called, but that’s counterproductive. We happen to run into the top of 
our opponent’s range (TT) in this hand, but that shouldn’t stop us from 
overbetting next time. 

Hand 14 (17:01) 
Collapse 
Hero is UTG with K♣ K♦. 

Hero raises to $1.11. MP calls. BTN calls. 

Flop ($4.08): 2♠ Q♣ 2♦ 
Hero bets $4. MP raises to $8. BTN folds. Hero raises to $15. MP calls. 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Turn ($34.08): Q♦ 
Hero checks. MP checks. 

River ($34.08): 5♦ 
Hero checks. MP checks. 

Hero wins the pot with two pair: kings and queens (K♣ K♦). 

Analysis 

We go with a large pot-sized flop bet because of the range advantage 
that we have over our opponents. As both the MP and BTN flatted our 
open, we can eliminate AA and QQ from their ranges. This means that 
there are very few combinations of hands our opponents can have that 
beat us. 

A weaker player may flat A2s facing a UTG open, but with removal there 
are only two combos of this holding (A♣2♣ and A♥2♥). Instead, the 
ranges of our opponents are likely to contain lots of pocket pairs 
(66-TT), as well as some Qx combinations. Our pot-sized bet will allow 
us to extract maximum value from that range. 

Even though our opponent raises the flop, it remains true that there are 
very few combinations in our opponent’s range that beat us here. For 
this reason, we can exploitatively raise KK for value with hops of being 
called by the large portion of Qx hands that our opponent can be 
holding. 

Hand 4 (3:40) 
Collapse 
Hero is in the BB with K♥Q♦ 
SB ($25 stack) raises to $1. Hero raises to $3. SB calls. 

 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Flop ($6): J♦ 8♥ 9♣ 
SB checks. Hero checks. 

Turn ($6): 9♥ 
SB bets $6. Hero raises to $52.63 and is all-in ($16.06 effective). SB 
folds. 

Analysis 

3-betting blind vs blind when faced by a min-open is standard, even 
against a relatively short 50 BB stack. KQo hand is strong enough to 
extract some value while forcing our opponent to play their weak 
minraise-call range out of position. 

On the turn, it is unlikely that our opponent would play their 9x combos 
in such an aggressive manner, so this bet seems like a bluff. For this 
reason, combined with the equity of our hand, raising this turn all-in 
against our short-stacked opponent is a strong play. It forces his 
random bluffs to fold, as well as weak drawing hands that have equity 
against us (such as KT). 

Additionally, KQ blocks a number of his QJ/KJ value combos, which 
makes this bluff get through a bit more often. 

Hand 17 (18:55) 
Collapse 
Hero is in the BB with Q♣5♥ 
UTG limps $0.50. Hero checks. 

Flop ($1.25): Q♥Q♦A♥ 
Hero checks. UTG checks. 

Turn($1.25): 9♥ 
Hero bets $2. UTG calls. 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

River: 9♠ 
Hero bets $8.50. UTG calls and mucks hand. 

Analysis 

When our opponent limps from UTG, we can assume that they are a 
fishy player from which we can exploitatively extract more value by 
betting large with our strong hands. After the action checks on the flop, 
we overbet both the turn and river in order to put our opponent in a 
difficult spot with Ax combos, which comprise a significant portion of 
their range. 

It is important to understand that sometimes it’s ok to throw range 
balancing out the window and instead try to exploit our opponents as 
much as possible. Against weak players such as this one, playing an 
exploitative style will be the most profitable strategy even if you run the 
risk of making your ranges unbalanced as a result. 

Adjusting to specific opponents based on hand histories 

A quick note on adjusting to players that you regularly encounter at the 
tables. For example, throughout this video you’ll notice that we get into 
a lot of pots with ‘WomboComboAA’ where we are called down lightly 
(especially in the last hand of the video with TT vs T9). 

We should be conscious that this opponent has shown a tendency to 
call us down lightly, and adjust our bluffing frequencies as a result. On 
rivers, we can overbet for value with our strongest holdings and 
consider giving up with some bluffs in more marginal spots. (That 
doesn’t necessarily mean to stop bluffing altogether!) 

Hand 12 (10:10) 
Collapse 
Hero is in the BB with 5♦ 6♠. 
UTG limps $0.50. Hero checks. 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Flop ($1.25): 6♥ 4♦ 9♣ 
Hero checks. UTG bets $0.75. Hero calls. 

Turn ($2.75): 8♣ 
Hero checks. UTG checks. 

River ($2.75): J♦ 
Hero checks. UTG bets $1.60. Hero calls and UTG mucks their hand (A♣ 
K♥). 

Analysis 

The hand starts with a limp from UTG-- a fish-tag worthy play. We have a 
clear check in the big blind and a clear call on the flop. 

After our opponent bets the flop, we would expect them to continue 
betting with most of their straight and draws, many of which contain a 
Jack (JT, QJ, J7). As a result, it’s fairly unlikely the river J♦ connected 
with our opponent’s hand. 

Based on what we’ve seen so far, players at these stakes seem to not 
value bet rivers as thinly as they should be. Therefore we can discount 
some 8x and 9x combos from our opponent’s range. 

Day 2 – Database Review 

We played just under 2,700 hands in this session and finished up $84. 
The main observations from today: 

■  Blue line outperforming red line 

My overall graph shows me to be winning substantially more money 
with showdown than without. This means that players are fighting for 
pots more and calling more frequently than expected, especially 
compared with equivalent stakes at PokerStars. 

■  Surprisingly stiff competition. 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

In general, regulars at these limits are stronger than expected, at least 
compared to other sites. To deal with this, game selection is important to 
make sure that you can maximise your edge. 

■  They are not 3-betting often enough vs steals. 

In terms of weaknesses, these players have displayed low 3-betting 
frequencies from the blinds. 

Our button opens have faced a 3-bet just 23% of the time. That number 
is even lower when we open from the SB, with the BB 3-betting 14%. 
Given how wide we open from steal positions, our opponents would be 
wise to 3-bet us at a much higher frequency. 

Hero is in the BB with A♥ 6♠. 
SB calls $0.50. Hero raises to $1.50. SB calls. 

Flop (3): 2♥ 4♥ Q♦ 
SB checks. Hero checks. 

Turn (3): 4♦ 
SB bets $1.42. Hero raises to $5.50. SB calls. 

River ($14): J♣ 
SB bets $6.65. Hero calls and SB mucks their hand (T♥ 3♥). 

Analysis 

We can discount strong many Ax hands, broadways, and pocket pairs from 
our opponent’s range once they choose to limp, but a trap is still possible. 
However, when our opponent flats our raise rather than re-raising, we can 
confidently remove traps from his range (AA, KK, QQ, JJ, AK). 

When our opponent leads on the turn, it is likely a bluff because of how few 
value combos are in their weak range. Strong Qx hands would have played 
differently pre-flop, and weaker Qx hands should play as a check-call in this 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

spot most of the time. Our opponent has few 4x combos, and our own holding 
(A6) blocks many of them (A4 and 64s). 

The board texture presents two potential flush draws on the turn, and our 
opponent has many suited hands that are now flush draws in his limp-calling 
range. Their pre-flop play also all but eliminates strong broadway flush draws 
from their range. 

Because of our opponent’s lack of value combos and abundance of draws, we 
can actually raise this spot for value. It may seem risky, but our huge range 
advantage on this turn allows us to raise with a large portion of our 
range.  

We have a relatively easy hero-call against this small river donk-bet. We only 
have to be good about 25% of the time for a call to be profitable against this 
bet size. The river J♣ does not complete any draws, nor is our opponent likely 
to lead out if he hit a pair on the river. For these reasons, we can hero-call our 
ace-high. 

Extremely exploitative lines like this can be very effective against capped 
ranges. 

UPSWING 

POKER 
Members 

Merch 
FAQ 
Contact 
Vincent Guarnieri 
TRAINING 
ARTICLES 
QUIZZES 
REVIEWS 
OUR PROS 
FREERESOURCES 
Home > Dashboard > The Poker Lab No Limit Simplified > Making Adjustments in a 
10,000 Hand Sample <i>by Ryan Fee</i> > Day 3 – Database Review 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

← Back To Lesson 

Day 3 - Database Review 

Day 3 - Database Review Notes 

Collapse 

Day 3 - Database Review 

In this video, we take a look at the results from day 3 on PokerTracker,. 
We also check out our overall sample for this challenge. 

As the graph shows, it is completely possible to lose 9 buy-ins over 2,000 
hands whilst playing completely fine! There are a few key things to note 
from this sample: 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

■  We could have opened looser from MP, CO, BTN and SB given 

the low 3-betting frequencies of our opponents. 

■  It might be time to tighten up vs 3-bet 

In circumstances where we do face a 3-bet, we may be calling too 
frequently given the likely strength of ranges that we are up against (we 
only face a 3-bet when opening from the BTN 22% of the time). 

■  The player pool may not fold to steals, but some individual 

players do. 

Though the likelihood of stealing blinds is lower than expected (48% from 
the SB), there are still may weak-tight players at this level. We can use 
our HUD stats to identify these weak-tight players and adjust our stealing 
frequencies when they are in the big blind. Against tighter players that 
do not defend often enough, you can profitably open a wider range 
of hands. 

■  We should defend our big blind a little less often in 3-way pots. 

Our won when saw flop (WWSF) % in 3-way pots is just 23%. (To be 
breaking even, our WWSF % should be 33% in theory.) 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

This indicates that we may be defending too wide of a range from the big 
blind when there is an open and a call. Because it is so difficult to realize 
the equity of hands when out of position, defending a stronger range in 
these situations will lead to more favourable post-flop spots. 

In the second half of the video, we take a look at our entire sample for 
$0.25/$0.50 6-max at ACR. 

■  Over 6,000 hands, we have lost $181 and contributed $321 in 

rake 

It is important to note how much rake you are paying and how it affects 
your win-rate. (Without rake, we are a winning player at these stakes 
over the sample.) 

To work out how much rake you are paying in BB/100, divide the amount 
of rake that you have paid (321.63) by the big blind (0.5), which comes 
out to 643.26. Divide this result by the number of hands that you have 
played (6249) and multiply it by 100 to get the %. 

In our case, we have been paying 10.29 BB/100 in rake – a significant 
amount that shifts us from a being winning player to a losing one. 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

← Previous Topic 

Next Topic → 

UPSWING POKER 
© Copyright 2023 
Sitemap 
Responsible Gambling 
Terms of Service 
Contact 

Hand 7 (13:16) 
Collapse 
Hero is in the BB with K♣9♦. 
MP raises $1. Hero calls. 

Flop ($2.25): 8♥T♠7♠ 
Hero checks. MP checks. 

Turn ($2.25): 5♣ 
Hero bets $2. MP calls. 

River ($6.25): 2♥ 
Hero bets $25.54 and is all-in ($7.87 effective). 

MP calls and wins the pot with a pair of sevens (K♦7♦). 

Analysis 

This hand, and many others like it, demonstrates a need to reduce our 
bluffing frequencies against this very loose player pool. 

 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

This is an appropriate situation to overbet as a bluff from a theoretical 
standpoint since we are facing a capped range and block the nuts. (It is 
clear that our opponent’s range is capped, as any nutted value hands 
should be betting this connected flop.) However, in practice it is shown 
to be a -EV play versus our opponent. 

Given this outcome, we should overbet bluff less often in these spots, 
and in turn widen our value over-betting range to get the maximum from 
our hero-calling opponent. 

Hand 22 (36:42) 
Collapse 
Hero is on the BTN with 5♦ 6♦. 
Hero raises to $1.50. BB raises to $5.50. Hero calls. 

Flop ($11): 9♠ 5♣ 7♥ 
BB bets $5.50. Hero calls. 

Turn ($22): 4♣ 
BB bets $19. Hero calls. 

River ($60): T♠ 
BB checks. Hero checks. 

BB wins the pot with a pair of tens (Q♥ T♥). 

Analysis 

This hand is an example of making the adjustment discussed in hand 7; 
that is, toning down our over-bet bluff frequencies. 

The flop is a clear call, and calling the turn is standard with third pair 
and an open-ended straight draw. If we shove the turn instead, we can 
only expect to be called by hands that are beating us. By calling, we 
allow our opponent to continue with their bluffs while retaining a lot of 
equity versus their range. 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

When our opponent checks the river and we have one of the weakest 
hands in our range, bluffing would usually be mandatory. But against 
opponents that show a propensity to call down lightly, it’s better to stick 
to shoving value hands only. 

As the result shows, both our call on the turn and check on the river 
were correct, and choosing not to bluff saved us the rest of our stack. 

Day 4 - Database Review 

Despite being confident with how the session played out, we finished 
down a couple of buy-ins. However, during this review we had an 
epiphany regarding the best adjustments to make in order to crush 
these stakes on ACR. 

■  We need to play tighter 

There’s a notable discrepancy between our hands won % and WWSF %. 
In particular, we are above average in % of hands won, but our WWSF % 
is below it. This means that our pre-flop aggression has been profitable, 
but once we see a flop our chances of winning the pot decline. 

Players at these stakes call too frequently and take erratic aggressive 
lines to win pots, which makes fighting back with marginal holdings 
not-so-profitable. This is not a game in which you’re likely to achieve a 
great red line (money won without showdown). 

■  Go for more thin value bets and less bluffs 

This player pool can be exploited with a value-heavy strategy—we need 
to bluff less and value bet more. This is not to say, however, that we 
should never bluff. If the ideal situation presents itself, where there is a 
clear range advantage, go for the bluff. But in close bluffing spots we 
should consider value betting thinner instead, since the field is apt to 
frequently make hero-calls. 

 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

■  Don’t worry about the red line; the green is all that matters. 
With these adjustments, we should soon see a graph that shows our 
winnings come primarily from our blue line (money won with 
showdown), while our red line will be break-even, or just below 
break-even. 

Hand 1 (00:00) 
Collapse 
Hero is in the BB with A♥ A♠ 
SB raises to $1.50. Hero raises to $4.50. SB calls. 

Flop ($9): 8♦ T♣ J♦ 
SB checks. Hero checks. 

Turn ($9): 6♠ 
SB checks. Hero bets $7. SB calls. 

River ($23): 4♣ 
SB checks. Hero bets $67.37 and is all-in ($38.50 effective). 

SB calls and mucks their hand (Q♦ T♦). 

Analysis 

Once again, the post-flop action caps our opponent’s range to 
medium-strength hands. After our opponent check-calls the turn, 
two-pair and sets become unlikely. 

The 4♣ river does not connect with our opponent’s range. In line with 
planned adjustments, we can overbet the river with our strong hands 
with expectations of getting called at a relatively high frequency. 

 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

We checked the flop, bet the turn, and overbet the river in a spot where 
many draws missed (flush draws, AK, AQ and KQ all brick out). This is a 
line our opponents have frequently perceived to be a bluff. 
Consequently, we can exploit their perception by betting the river with a 
value-heavy range. 

By overbet bluffing less in these spots (while keeping in mind the same 
concept of capped ranges) we can overbet this river for value with our 
over pairs, two pair combos, and sets. Getting called by hands as weak 
as second pair only reinforces our adjustment. 

Hand 12 (22:22) 
Collapse 
Hero is in the BB with J♦Q♣. 
SB raises to $1.50. Hero calls. 

Flop ($3): J♥T♣A♣ 
SB bets $2. Hero calls. 

Turn ($7): 3♥ 
SB bets $5.50. Hero calls. 

River ($18): 4♣ 
SB bets $13.50. Hero raises to $41 and is all-in. 

SB calls and wins the pot with a straight (Q♥ K♣). 

Analysis 

This hand demonstrates the thought process behind selecting 
appropriate bluffs on certain runouts. 

On the river, J♦Q♣ is one of the most suitable hands to turn into a bluff, 
since 

 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

we block the second nut flush with the Q♣, as well as the nut straight, 
which means our opponent has fewer value combinations to call our 
raise with. 

It is unfortunate that we run into one of the hands that we block, but the 
play was nonetheless a strong one and not incorrect. Most players have 
unbalanced, value-heavy river raising ranges, so it is good to balance 
out your range with some optimal bluffing hands like we did here. 

Day 5 - Database Review 

In this video, we do one final review of our database across the five 
days. 

As predicted, our adjustments were very effective—we won 6 buy-ins 
over 3,000 hands in our last session, and the style changes we made are 
reflected in our graph. Our blue line (money won with showdown) is the 
main source of income, which is what we expected by playing a 
value-heavy range. 

Some final notes about the player pool and our sample: 

Overall, we won 3.99 BB/100 (all-in adjusted) over 10,000 hands, and 
with rake removed this rises to 13.99 BB/100. 

Our Raise First In (RFI) strategy was also effective overall. The stats 
were as follows: 

■  EP = 21.30% 
■  MP = 24.95% 
■  CO = 29.59% 
■  BTN = 55.39% 
■  SB = 62.92% 

 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

We stole the blinds at a high frequency, in particular from the BTN (41%). 
This is awesome news for our wide-opening strategy. 

In terms of potential adjustments, we can consider 3-betting less from 
the BTN, as well as calling less from the BB. 

The important upshot from all this is that using tracking software will 
help you to recognize the general tendencies of players in your games. 
Then, once you’ve identified those tendencies you can construct a 
strategy that best exploits them. 

In our sample’s case, the adjustment was to bluff less and value bet 
more—a style that proved to be successful against our wide-calling 
opponents. 

Garys spreadsheet for live cash module: 

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tAo8Z5rKQPD_XxyzIFRKSLOIE7Jk0TmfZCvhKTUZ
5dM/edit 

Preflop Ranges/Discussion 

In this subsection we are going to look at several different preflop charts and compare 
the difference between raked games and no rake games. I have selected 200bb stack 
sizes because I believe the average stack size will be around this. 

EP… 

 
 
 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

These ranges are relatively similar, there are a few strange anomalies in here (i.e. we can 
open ATo in a raked game but not in an unraked game). We don’t want to worry too much 
about this, we simply want to focus mainly on hands like 22, 54s, 66, 77 etc; the 
lower/more marginal parts of our range we can open in an unraked game, but in a raked 
game these go from being slightly winning opens to extremely 
marginal/breakeven/slightly losing. 

Cliffs – tighten up in raked games in EP with 22-55/54s/65s type hands. 

On a slight tangent it’s extremely important that we are aware of our table surroundings; 
if we have a very large fun player in the BB that we want to play with, we should open 
22/KJo type hands essentially always. We do this because we want to be IP vs this type 
of player. We simply widen our opening range and try to play more often with this type of 
player. This of course does not apply if this type of player is BTN/CO and we end up 
being OOP vs him/her. 

HJ… 

 
 
 
 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Here we can see a really big difference in the two opening ranges; hands like 22-44/54s 
are still being mixed in the raked game, but we open these pure in an unraked game, 
along with hands like 97s, J8s, 54s+. There is a really big difference between these two 
charts, and the trend is already very clear; in a raked game we want to really tighten up 
with the lower parts of our range, even as far as the HJ.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

BTN… 

This is the first part of this module where I want to talk about exploiting our opponents. 
Like all preflop charts, these ranges play against these ranges. Our opponents will not be 
as good/as aggressive as these ranges suggest, so we should not follow these ranges 
identically. If we look at the BB’s response vs a BTN open… 

 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

…we can see that the BB is supposed to 3b quite wide. The BB is supposed to 3b hands 
like JTs, T9s, J9s, K7s, K2s almost always. The BB is also supposed to 3b hands like 
Q8s, A6o, QTo, J7s, 63s etc at a low/medium frequency. Anyone who has played in a live 
game, particularly a lower stakes live game like 1/2 and 2/5, knows that this just doesn’t 
happen. We know that our ranges play vs our ranges, and we know that our opponents 
will never get close to this sort of polarized 3b strategy, so we can deviate from our 
preflop charts and open wider. We get to play more pots IP vs a wider range, our 
opponent will miss more often, and we get to cbet and make them fold more often. 

If we now look at what we should be defending in the BB, we can see an extremely 
significant difference between these two charts. In an unraked game we can defend 
hands like 86o, 97o, 95s, T4s, A3o etc. In a raked game, however, defending these types 
of hands will significantly eat into our winrate. This is a leak that many of us can plug in a 
raked game, and it will immediately increase our winrate. We can start to fold hands like 
K8o, 65o, 32s, 42s etc. Before seeing these charts these are hands that I personally 
would have happily defended with, but as we can see these are clear folds and we really 
do need to tighten up when defending the BB. 

BB vs MP… 

 
 
 
 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

As we can see again from these charts we have to be extremely tight in a raked game, but 
can continue to defend quite wide in the unraked games; hands like 54o, 65o etc are 
comfortable calls in an unraked game, but in the raked game we can’t even defend 
KTo/QJo/K3s etc. 

I want to address the white text in the two above screenshots; the BB vs BTN defence is 
solved for 2.5x open, and the MP vs BTN defence is solved for vs 2.25x open. These are 
close-ish for a 2/5 game (where people generally open to 3x-4x, however it goes without 
saying that for a 1/2 game the general open is much bigger. If people do open bigger, we 
need to tighten up our defence frequencies even more than the above screenshots 
suggest, because our immediate odds and our implied odds are not as good. We can use 
the above charts as a very nice guide but in a 1/2 game it goes without saying we need to 
defend a little tighter. 

General miscellaneous discussion for preflop opening strategy… 

 
 
 
 
 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

In unraked games the preflop raise size is generally consistently smaller, however in 
raked games people seem to want to raise to 5x/6x always. Let’s buck this trend and start 
to adjust our raise size depending on what position we are. I no longer want to see a 5x 
raise UTG/UTG+1 in a 1/2 game. Let’s replicate the online strategy of using a smaller 
raise size in EP. The reason we do this is very simple; we are going to be OOP a lot, and 
as a result we want to keep the size of the pot smaller. We also save money for the times 
that we get 3b and have to fold. Let’s use a 3x size in EP, a 4x size in MP and a 5x size in 
LP.  

If you are playing on a very loose table where people are calling lots preflop multiway 
you want to tighten up your opening range, particularly from early position. If you are 
playing on a tight/passive table, you tend to open wider as you are more likely to steal 
the blinds or get yourself HU with the players in the blind. 

Extremely important that we are aware of who is at our table and adjust accordingly. E.g., 
if there is a big fun player in the blinds, we tend to widen our opening range to play with 
him/her. Alternatively, if there is a very aggressive reg on the BTN we should aim to 
tighten up our opening range as we know he/she will defend/3b more and make our life 
quite difficult OOP. 

SRP Flop Strategy 

In this subsection we are going to look at a few different scenarios. 
We are going to look at cbetting multiway, cbetting HU when we are 
OOP, and cbetting HU when we are IP. A lot of us play both live and 
online, and in this video we’ll see that we cannot just implement the 
same strategy in both environments, we need to adjust accordingly. 

Cbetting HU 

 
 
 
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

We are going to look at two different scenarios here and talk about the 
difference between live and online in our strategies. We are going to 
look at cbetting OOP (EP vs BTN), and cbetting IP (BTN vs BB). 
Please note that what we are looking at is not strictly related to EP vs 
BTN only for example, we can apply this to EP vs CO, UTG+1 vs BTN 
etc. It’s not about memorizing exact strategies for exact positions, but 
instead getting a feel for what our strategy looks like overall. 

EP vs BTN 

There’s a big difference between the way we play middling/low boards 
and the way we play single/double broadway boards. As we can see, 
we are checking EXTREMELY wide on 9 high and below flops, to the 
point where we can just simplify and check these always. This is to do 
with how little 22-77 type hands we open, and how many hands IP has 
that connects with this type of board. The ten high and 9 high boards 
are getting bet a little more frequently, but we are still checking these 
on average around half the time. 

If we look at the single broadway and the double broadway boards, 
we can see that we want to be betting these MUCH wider. The J high 
boards/wheel A high boards appear to be higher frequency checks, 
but the K high, Q high disconnected, and double broadway textures 
are really good for our range and we bet them really wide as a result! 

Paired boards are played similarly to the above strategies; the 
lower/connected boards get cbet a lot less than the higher paired 
boards. 

  
  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Let’s delve into 2 different boards within the solver and investigate… 

K86fd – If we quickly take a glance at the spreadsheet we can see that 
there is a very clear trend; the more connected the flop, the more we 
check. So a board like K42 which is very disconnected gets bet 
virtually always, but a board like this that is more middling/straight-y 
gets checked a little more frequently. It’s really important to know 
what our checking range looks like, and it’s really easy to see that it is 
hands that have no immediate equity or backdoor equity. Note the 
difference between A3dd and A7dd. We also balance our checking 
range with some of our weaker top pairs, and our immediate 
underpairs to the highest card. Checking our nutted hands like 88/66 
is completely dependent on who our opponent is; if it’s a 
loose/passive type player who won’t stab much then this would be a 
disaster spot to check. If it’s an aggro LAGgy type player who stabs a 
lot, then we can check this hand (and always x/r). 

952r – whilst in theory we should check our entire range here, I have 
purposefully chosen this flop to talk about 1) why we might not want 
to do that, and 2) what our x/r range is going to look like. Whilst we 
acknowledge that on these low boards the IP player is doing much 
better than on a board like K72r (the equity is almost even), our live 
poker opponents will not stab anywhere near as much as the solver 
will, so we miss value with our nutted hands. We want to check more 
often on these boards, but it would be a mistake to check our entire 
range. We can check our entire range on boards like 765 or 854, but 
on a semi-connected board like this we want to be betting around 30% 
of the time. 

When we do check, let’s take a look at our check-raising range. As we 
can see it is not that wide at all, and that is because of how deep we 

  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

are. It’s really important that we check raise less often on these more 
connected flops when we are deeper because of how vulnerable 
certain hands in our range become. We want to favour hands that 
have more equity/can turn more equity for our bluffs, and we want to 
choose our sets/AA-TT type hands for our value. 

BTN vs BB 

For this scenario, I have deliberately widened both ranges; whilst we 
already know that the BB should defend tighter because of the rake, 
the reality is that our opponents will not know/do this, and they will 
defend a wider range. I have widened the BTN opening range to 
reflect the fact that, as discussed, the BB will not 3b even close to 
correctly and as a result we get to see more flops IP vs a wider range 
and win more money overall. 

Our strategy mirrors our online strategy here quite a lot, the 
difference is that, whilst we still have a wide checking range, we get to 
bet much wider on the middling/low textures than we would online. 

I recommended in the first part of the module that we want to widen 
our BTN opening range because people will not 3b correctly. People 
will not raise our cbets correctly when we do cbet, and therefore we 
can cbet wider than the spreadsheet/solver suggests. We can use 
A82r as a great example of how much the BB should raise vs our 
cbet, but in reality, it’s just never happening, and therefore we want to 
bet wider. People will also fold hands like 96ss, JTo etc, so our wide 
cbet strategies will be printing. 

  
  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

The single broadway textures are quite interesting, according to the 
solver/sheet we should be checking back quite a lot. I think that that 
is fine on Q high/J high boards that are connected (we want to check 
back around 50% on average) but on the Q high disconnected, K high 
and A high boards, we want to be betting these really quite wide. 
When it comes to choosing a preferred bet size, the solver is acting 
quite erratically. I think it’s best to be using a 33% cbet size on these 
textures (and bet wider than the solver suggests). As we know, our 
opponent has lots of air/won’t xr correctly, so we want to bet small, 
and bet often. 

Let’s take a look at a couple of different boards to get an idea of what 
our betting/checking ranges look like… 

862r – if we look at the equity on average that we have in the 
middling/low section of our sheet, we can see that our equity is lower 
on these types of flops than it is on a KQ4r type board for example. 
This obviously means that we have to do more checking. Our 
checking range on these boards is quite easy to work out once we get 
the hang of it; we want to check a bunch of our AK-A9, KQ-KT type 
hands, and a lot of our complete air like Q3s hands. If we have a 
backdoor combo draw like Q7ss we can bet that really quite wide. We 
mix in some checks with our weaker top pair (as standard), and while 
the solver loves to check back AA to protect its range on future 
streets, this is just not going to be an optimal strategy in live poker; if 
we force the flop to go x/x we can see that our opponent should be 
leading a ton with their straight draws, gutshots, 3rd pairs etc. It just 
doesn’t happen, and therefore we miss value on the flop. 

AQ9fd – It’s really hard for us to have complete air on 862, we always 
have a backdoor something or overcards. On this texture, we have 

  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

more air in our range and these are the hands we should be checking 
with. As discussed, we want to be betting wider here than the solver 
will want to, and we can bet with our FDs/BDFDs always, but give up 
our trash hands with no BDFD. So, 64ss/64hh we can bet almost 
always, and 64dd/cc will always check back (note that just because 
we check back the flop with these doesn’t mean we won’t bluff the 
turn/river with them). We also want to pure bet our gutshots/OESDs 
on these types of boards. Basically, we want to up our betting 
frequencies with stronger draws/backdoor draws, and give up a 
bunch with our hands that have no backdoor draws at all. 

Cbetting multiway 

There are many different scenarios in which we can be ‘multiway’. We 
are going to focus on the difference between being OOP to most of 
the remaining players in the hand, and being IP to most of them. 
There is no accessible solver available to me for running multiway 
sims, so we’ll have to use some intuition to work out what our general 
strategy is going to be. 

In terms of what sizing scheme we want to use, we have two different 
flop sizes when we bet: 33% and 50%. We use the smaller size on 
boards we want to bet wider on like KQ2, A83, K42, and all 
paired/monotone boards. We use 50% on boards that are not going to 
be bet all that often like 842, T65, J86 etc. Note that your 50% size can 
be 66% if you wish, but we don’t really love ploughing money into the 
pot multiway, and thus a smaller “large size” will be more beneficial. 

  
  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Multiway OOP – when there are more players in the pot our equity 
goes down. This means that we have to be significantly tighter when 
choosing hands to cbet, regardless of the board. There are certain 
boards that we can cbet wider that are better for our range, and 
obviously there are some boards that are not as good for us. We can 
use Equilab to give a great indication of how our equity goes down 
with more players in the pot. 

Summary – we want to bet wide with high equity bluffs, hands that 
can turn equity (e.g. T9ss on 842sdc), and we want to protect our 
checking range with some hands like top set, bottom set (to x/r with) 
and our top pairs with the weakest kicker. 

Multiway IP – it’s not often that we’ll find ourselves multiway and IP vs 
both the blinds, but it does happen sometimes. We want to cbet at a 
very high frequency on boards that are very good for us, like double 
broadway, K72r, A94r, high paired card type boards. We can protect 
our range by checking back some of our top pairs with the weakest 
kicker, and some immediate underpairs to the highest card (e.g. 99 on 
T52). We do not want to do ANY slowplaying at all in position in live 
poker. Whilst this may work occasionally, it is a far higher EV strategy 
to cbet our strongest hands instead of checking them back for 
deception. 

Turn SRP Strategy 

Heads Up Turn Strategy 

Turns rly rly good for range: can do more low equity bluffs 

  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

IP – it’s really uncommon to see turn overbets in SRPs at lower stakes 
live games. This is something we absolutely should be doing (in the 
correct situation), so let’s know when to do it and add it to our 
arsenal. If we look at boards like K74r and K53fd we can devise an 
extremely solid turn strategy straight off the bat. We like to bet 75% 
on certain straight completing/all flush completing turn cards, as well 
as board pairing cards. We very clearly prefer an overbet size on brick 
turn cards. On these higher textures there are many brick turns, so we 
need to take a look at some of the lower/more connected textures. 

On a board like T52fd we can see that we bet 75% on the flush 
completing turns, 133% on the brick cards, 133% on J, Q, K turns, and 
75% on A turns. If we look at a texture like 842fd we can see that the 
solver wants to overbet some overcard turns and bet 75% on other 
overcard turns. It’s quite erratic, and quite tough to derive a set 
strategy that is simple and easy to follow. My advice is going to be to 
follow the rule of T74fd; we want to overbet all the bricks, and all the 
J, Q, K turns. We want to bet 75% on 4 card straight turns, flush 
completing turns and board pairing turns. We also want to bet 75% on 
A turns. The reason for this is that if we look at what the BB calls OTF, 
he has more Ax that will call the flop than Kx/Qx hands. For that 
reason we don’t want to overbet into a range that has a decent 
number of turned top pairs on T52A. Our opponent has way less 
turned TPs on T52K, T52Q etc, and that’s why we can overbet those 
turns. 

We also get to find low equity turn bluffs on these types of boards. As 
discussed, on K723 the turn is not that great for our range and we 
have to give up with T8s type hands, but on 842Q, we have so many 
more turned TPs than our opponent, so we get to barrel hands like 
K3s with no FD etc. 

  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Paired boards are going to be very heavily favouring a 75% turn size. 
We can use 883r and 877fd to see this. Monotone boards also favour a 
75% turn size. 

OOP – if we refer back to our previous scenario of EP vs BTN, we can 
use several different flops to investigate what our general preferred 
turn sizing should be. Using K42, 844 and T42 we can see that our 
only turn size is 75%. If we subtree on T429 for a 33% size, we can see 
that the solver will actually prefer a 33% turn size a lot of the time. 
Whilst this will be correct in theory, I don’t think this is the most 
optimal strategy and we should almost always use a larger size of 
75%. Note that we are not overbetting ever OOP, and this is because 
we are OOP and want to control the size of the pot! 

For turns: Bet valued hands, and hands with flopped or turned equity 
like fd, oesd, gutshots with overcard, combo draws. 

For multiways: way more checking, more selective with bets. Tighter, 
and lower bet sizing. 

BB SRP Strategy 

In this subsection we will spend some time looking at our general 
strategy in the BB in SRPs. 

Defending Preflop 

  
  
 
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

As discussed previously we need to tighten up our defending range in 
the BB in raked games. I have used the BB defending ranges vs HJ to 
illustrate the point that in raked games we want to underdefend more 
than anything, whereas in unraked games we can slightly overdefend. 
The rake is an incredibly significant factor in our decision making. 

I don’t have multiway defence charts to illustrate the point I want to 
make, but I cannot stress how important it is that we don’t defend 
super wide from the BB multiway because we think we are “priced 
in”. A lot of hands like QTo, 84s, 87o, A7o etc look like they might be 
profitable to call from the BB after an open and several calls, but the 
reality is that we actually have to defend quite really quite tightly in 
this spot. Take a hand like QTo for example, in a multiway spot these 
unsuited low broadway hands like this are going to be dominated very 
often, and so rarely do any dominating themselves. KJo/KQo are 
reasonable defends because they will have some of your opponents’ 
hands dominated more often than not. Hands like 64s are fine to 
defend, but the super unconnected suited hands like 84s, T2s etc are 
not profitable defends. We can significantly increase our winrate by 
not bleeding from the blinds in multiway pots. 

^HUGE LEAK for lots of players 

3betting preflop 

I want to re-visit our BB strategy vs BTN with regards to rake/no 
rake… 

If we look at the chart on the left this is really quite similar to an online 
BB vs BTN 3b chart, with a ton of J9s, T9s, suited broadway type 

  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

hands in there. As we can see from the chart on the right there is a lot 
more “unusual” 3betting going on. Hands like A6o, A4o, A2s, K3s 
become relatively marginal calls because of the rake, and they are 
therefore more incentivised to take the pot down preflop instead of 
going to a flop with $17 in it and having $5 taken out of the pot. Whilst 
these ranges are obviously incredibly hi-tech, remember our 
opponents will not play like these ranges. As a result we probably 
generate less fold equity than these ranges suggest, and I am going 
to strongly recommend focusing on using suited hands as our 3b 
bluffs. We can sprinkle in a sliver of A4o, A5o etc, but I’d rather see us 
use hands like A3s and A4s at a higher frequency, because A4s plays 
much better than A4o postflop, and we’re going to go to a flop more 
often than these ranges suggest. Hypothetical scenario – folds round 
to BTN, BTN opens QTo, we 3b from the BB, our charts suggest that 
BTN has a very VERY clear fold, but live players will defend this vs a 
3b. As a result I want us to have hands that are stronger/flop more 
equity/backdoor equity and play better postflop. 

Raising cbets 

I’m going to use a few different examples in the solver to show what 
our raising range should look like on a variety of flops. It’s really 
important to note that the frequency we raise will be higher when our 
opponents use smaller cbet sizes. 

753r – this is a perfect example of the above paragraph; if BTN cbets a 
correct size here of 75%, we only raise around 10% of the time. If the 
BTN cbets for 33%, we are raising almost 20% of the time. That’s a 
very significant difference. If we look at our raising range vs a 75% bet 
size, we can see that the solver will mix in some calls with sets and 
top two pair. We can call our top set sometimes if we want to, but our 

  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

bottom set/middle set/top two pair/flopped straights should just 
always be raised. The pot is small, we have a strong hand in an 
environment that people don’t like to fold in, and we want to fastplay 
OOP always. In terms of our bluffs, we like to choose our gutshots 
that have a backdoor flush draw and our OESDs. 

Our turn strategy is so easily worked out by looking at the difference 
between J6ss and J6dd on the Td turn. We want to continue with our 
higher equity bluffs always! 

KJ5fd – our opponents will use a cbet size here of 33% very often in 
my opinion. Firstly if we look at our value, we are raising our nutted 
hands like KJ, J5, 55 almost always. This is because of the smaller bet 
size, where the solver doesn’t like to slowplay because there is less 
money going into the pot. We can even raise our stronger TPs at 
some frequency, and sometimes our weaker TPs with a FD (like 
K7hh). In terms of our bluffs, we prioritise our combo draws and our 
NFDs with lowest kickers. We also want to x/r some bottom pairs with 
no kicker with a BDFD at a relatively low frequency. This gives us 
great board coverage for when the bottom card pairs, allows us to 
have some runner runner flushes, and also our low kicker unblocks a 
lot of our opponent’s folding range. 

Let’s take a look at our flush draw combos that want to raise; we want 
to use Axhh and Qxhh with the lowest kickers. The reason for this is 
that we want to choose hands that have less SDV, but also hands that 
unblock our opponent’s worse FDs; A8hh blocks 87hh, 86hh, Q8hh 
etc, but A2hh/Q2hh blocks a lot less FDs our opponent can have. 
Flush over flushing people is great, and that’s why the solver chooses 
specific combos. We want to x/r our combo draws and our NFDs/2nd 
NFDs with the weakest kickers! 

  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

T93fd – again, our value range is very obvious here, hands like T9, 33, 
and even some TPTK. Our bluffs are going to be OESDs (particularly 
with a FD or BDFD). 

The importance in the difference in our strategy depending on our 
opponent’s betsize is shown well here; if we force BTN to bet 33% we 
can see how much we raise K2hh type hands, but vs a 75% bet we are 
rarely raising these hands. Be aware of your opponent’s betsize as it 
dictates how often you get to raise overall! 

It is extremely important that we understand that we want to continue 
bluffing on the turn with our highest equity bluffs. Let’s look at KQ5r 
and see what turns we want to continue on with a hand like 87s. We 
continue to bet with our hands that have flopped a lot of equity, and 
our low equity flop raises that have turned equity! 

3bet Preflop Ranges 

Similarly to part 2 of this module, we are now going to take a look at 
our preflop 3betting charts. As previously mentioned, there are many 
different charts available for me to choose from, and I can’t fit them all 
into this module, so I am going to select as many as possible for us to 
look at in a variety of scenarios. The two scenarios I have chosen for 
3betting preflop are SB vs CO and BTN vs MP, so one IP and one OOP. 

As discussed previously these ranges have been run with 2.25x 
opening sizes, which we will never see in a raked 1/2 or 2/5 game. 
This might be closer to true in a 5/10 or above game. We need to 
adjust in lower staked games by tightening up our 3b range and our 
calling range too. 

  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

BTN vs MP… 

As expected, we can see that in an unraked game we can mix certain 
hands between call and 3b. Hands like 87s, A6s, 88 are completely 
fine to 3b and call. If we look at the raked game however, we can see 
that we must play a much higher frequency 3bet, as we are 
incentivised to take the pot down preflop more often as a result of the 
rake. We also want to be folding marginal hands like 22-55, 98s, J9s, 
AJo hands always preflop. Whilst this might seem quite tight at first 
glance, I cannot stress to you how mindful we must be of the rake. We 
really want to be changing our game to have a lot more 3bets, a lot 
less flats with trashy hands that won’t beat the rake long term, and a 
lot more flatting with the correct types of hands (i.e., folding 87s but 
flatting KJs). 

SB vs CO... 

Firstly, let’s take a look at the chart on the left. We are pure VPIPing 
22+, AJo, ATo, and 54s +. Given the fact that there is no rake, we have 
some money in the pot already from our SB, and that it’s live poker 
and the BB won’t squeeze as much as he should, we can VPIP really 
quite wide overall here. When you compare this chart to the raked 
game, you can see that whilst we can do a little bit of flatting, our 
range is still much tighter overall, and we are still incentivised to play 
a higher frequency 3b with more of our range. We are looking for 
hands that play well postflop like suited broadways and suited Ax. 
Hands like 87s just don’t feature in our 3betting or flatting range at all 
when OOP. Please also remember that these ranges are set for 
smaller open sizes, so when we do face larger open sizes, we are 

  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

getting worse immediate odds and worse implied odds, and we will 
play very few flats indeed (and much more 3bets). 

3b Flop Strategy 

For this part of the module I have purposefully used the Upswing 
Poker Advanced Online ranges for my sims. This is because I want to 
focus on the raked games strategy in particular here, and as 
mentioned in the previous section, the raked ranges advocate for 
more flatting than we should be doing because of the smaller opening 
size. We are much more likely to face 3x/4x/5x opening sizes, and 
when that happens, we flat a whole lot less because our immediate 
odds aren’t as good, and we are incentivised to take the pot down 
preflop more often. 

We’re going to take a look at two different scenarios: BTN vs MP and 
SB vs CO. Please remember that we can apply what we learn here to 
different scenarios, and you are not limited to only using this strategy 
in the above scenario. For example, we can apply SB vs CO strategy 
to SB vs BTN as well. We don’t spend our time learning the difference 
between SB vs BTN and SB vs CO, we build a solid strategy for OOP 
3bet pots vs late position, and if we want to go back and fine-tune this 
when we have increased our EV elsewhere, we can. 

For both of the upcoming scenarios, remember that the more 
connected the lower boards are, the more frequently we check. We 
can bet 983r much more than we can bet 643fd! 

 BTN vs MP 

  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Our general strategy here will be to use two different betsizes 
depending on the texture and stack depth. The first size will always be 
33%, and the second size will be between 50% and 66%. More 
advanced players can add sizes like 25% and 75%, but we can use 
just two sizes and devise a solid, simple strategy. Before we break 
down some flops/boards to look at, let’s take a look at our 
spreadsheet. We can see that we want to bet smaller on A high 
boards, double broadway boards, monotone boards, and paired 
boards where the paired card is high. We want to bet our 50-66% size 
on single broadway boards, and middling/low boards. From an 
exploitative point of view, we want to bet wider than this spreadsheet 
suggests, because the OOP player will not raise anywhere near as 
much as they should. We can use A94fd to see just how wide the 
solver will x/r this flop, and if we compare that to our opponents in a 
live game, we realise that this will never happen, so we can cbet 
wider. 

We’re going to look at two different flops. I have purposefully chosen 
two flops where we don’t bet our entire range so we can focus on the 
range that wants to check back. 

J65fd – this is a great indication of what our overall x/b strategy 
should look like. If we’re ever in a spot where we don’t bet our entire 
range our x/b range is really quite consistent. We want to x/b our 
weakest TPs (we can use A73fd as a better indication as we have 
more TPs in our range on this type of board), some of our 2nd/3rd pairs, 
some of our AKss type hands, and some of our KTcc type hands that 
can turn a lot of equity (they x/b the flop because they don’t want to 
get x/r’d). We never want to slowplay hands like AJ/QQ+ here! 

  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

743r – as we know, we want to x/b more on these lower boards, and 
the more connected the board the more frequently we check (look at 
987r and 654fd in the spreadsheet as a great example). We want to 
mix in a bunch of checks with our AQ/AK type hands on this board 
and bet our hands with less SDV (Q high, J high, T high type hands). 
On a board like J65fd above it would be an abomination to x/b a hand 
like AA (despite the solver wanting to do so 15% of the time), but on a 
board like this, we are definitely allowed to x/b a small percentage of 
the time with AA/KK. QQ-TT want to bet much more frequently as they 
need protection from more overcard turns. The reason we want to bet 
hands like KQ/KJ and not K9/Q9 is because they have more equity 
(remember MP has JJ here, so KQ has two overcards to hands like 
that, but has only one and that significantly reduces its equity). 

SB vs CO 

Our sizing scheme here is going to be a little different. We are still 
going to use the 33% cbet size on certain textures, but a larger cbet 
size of 66-75% is mandatory when OOP. If we are IP and we cbet a flop 
like T72 for 50%, our opponent can’t float with hands like KQ, AJ, 55 
etc because they are OOP and will end up check/folding the turn so 
often. If we are OOP and we use the 50% size, our opponent can float 
hands like this much more easily and make our lives a misery OTT. It’s 
important that we have a larger cbet size on certain textures to 
de-incentivise our opponents from floating us with higher equity 
hands like this. If we look at our spreadsheet, we can see that we want 
to use 33% on A high, K high, Q high boards, high paired boards, and 
monotone boards. We want to use the 66-75% cbet size on J high 
boards and middling/low boards. Whilst I haven’t included this in the 
spreadsheet, I am going to strongly recommend adding a 50% cbet 

  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

size to your arsenal for low paired boards like T22, 866 etc. We don’t 
really want to bet big into a range which has a ‘trips advantage’, so 
50% works nicely on these boards. 

Let’s take a look at some flops where we’re not betting our entire 
range. 

A76r – if we very quickly look back at our spreadsheet, we can see a 
nice easy trend for these A high boards; if the board is disconnected, 
we get to bet very wide, but if the other two cards are more 
connected, we want to be checking around 30% of the time in total. 
We are happy to see that what we learned in the above section applies 
when we are OOP as well; we check our weaker TPs, our immediate 
underpairs to the top card (KK-JJ in this instance), and some of our 
trashy non-BDFD type hands like KJcc, KQo etc. 

632fd – if we force the SB to check here, we can see that when IP the 
solver will stab with so many hands that a human won’t. This means 
that, whilst we still play more checks than normal on this board 
because we are OOP/it is connected, we don’t want to check 
anywhere near as much as the solver suggests. If humans don’t stab 
hands like JTs, AQo or K9s here as much as the solver will, we are 
just missing out on value with our stronger hands. If we force the 
OOP player to check, and the IP player to stab, we can see that we 
need to play a very aggressive x/r strategy. While this might feel 
daunting at first, we can keep it very easy/simple and x/r our JJ+, and 
our strongest FDs with 2 high cards. We can even throw in some KQ 
of BDFD, A4 BDFD type hands too. 

  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

T63r – the above 632fd board gave a great indication of what our x/r 
strategy looks like, but it wasn’t the best example of what our cbetting 
strategy is (although we know that we want to cbet wider than the 
15% the solver suggested). If we look at this board here we can see 
that our checking range is again very consistent; our weakest TPs, 
our immediate underpairs to the top card, and our A9/A4 combos with 
no BDFD just give up. 

Look at the board, figure out if you want to range bet, check a small 
amount, or check a lot on the board. If you want to check a small 
amount, think about what your checking range looks like, and ask 
yourself if your hand falls into that category. If you want to check a 
lot, be sure that you play a solid/aggressive/simplified x/r strategy! 

turn: continue with your flopped equity and turned equity (flopped 
fdfd, oesd, sets, and turned versions of these too.), and give up w 
hands that didn’t pick up equity, unless it has blocking/removal to his 
value hands and doesn’t block bluffs 

^also, we don’t want to barrel with hands that block there air. 

on great turn cards for our range we can bet a little wider w no equity 
bluffs (have good removal/blocking tho) 

when oop be more selective and tighter bc less fold equity and hard 
to get to showdown (even if bet whole range on flop), when in position 
however can barrel far more high equity draws/values and even hands 
w good blockage and removal of value hands and no blocking of their 
bluffs. 

while blocking and removal things are important, equity is first thing 
to pick and is more important. 

  
 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

General River Strategy 

**this is for live, so if in tougher/online games can swirch to slightly 
more bluffs and less value thin bets and so forth. 

The general consensus is that people don’t fold anywhere as much as 
they should in live poker. Whilst that means that we should bluff less 
frequently, that doesn’t mean we just never bluff. We want to bluff 
appropriately in 2 different situations, 1) when we have correct 
blockers/unblockers, and 2) when the board runs out scarily for our 
opponent’s range (aka in a bad way for opponent). 

While we all know that blockers are important for bluffing 
straight/flush boards, unblockers are just as important as well. Let’s 
take a look at a board like QT2r5h7d. We can see that the solver 
doesn’t like to bluff with missed hearts ever. This is a really important 
part of river strategy, and something that you should immediately 
start to include in your own game. Instead of using hands like A4hh 
and J9hh we can choose the combos that don’t contain a heart 
instead. Whilst in game you might feel frustrated having to give up on 
the river with your missed flush draw, it’s important to realise that that 
bluff will be much lower EV than some of the other combos we arrive 
to the river with. Hands like J9cc, K4dd, 64s are much better bluffs 
because of their unblockers. It's important that we find these low 
equity turn barrels with K4s/K3s type hands to allow us to have 
enough bluffs to choose from OTR. 

^just bc didn’t hit and can’t win pot, if not good blockers/unblockers, 
just let it go, don’t be too tempted to bluff it to win, will be negative ev. 

 
  
  
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Also, probably bluff less on river when board doesn’t change too 
much. 

The other scenario we want to find bluffs in is really quite 
self-explanatory; on a low type of board we want to continue to barrel 
scare cards. The solver isn’t going to help us out very much with this 
river scenario as people won’t fold as much as the solver does. Take 
842fdQx for example, when we overbet this turn the solver is folding 
77 and some 8x, but in reality, our opponents are never folding these 
hands. This means that their range is wider/contains more weak 
hands when we get to the river, and we get to bluff the higher 
cards/draw completing cards more than the solver will. We’ve got to 
be quite selective with the rivers we elect to bluff in this scenario, as 
our opponents will continue to call their marginal 8x/4x/77 type hands 
on brick rivers, but will be more inclined to fold on Kx/Ax/Th type 
rivers. 

I do not recommend trying to make live players fold 2nd pair type 
hands on brick rivers, and we should only bluff with good 
blockers/unblockers/on runouts which are bad for their marginal 
holdings. 

This leads me nicely on to my next point. If we shouldn’t be bluffing 
as wide as a solver would, it means that we should be value betting 
extremely thinly! 

Let’s take a look in the solver at a couple of different instances… 

  
  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

If we play around with T65r we can see just how wide we should be 
value betting with different ways we get to the river. Let’s look at when 
flop and turn go x/x, we can see that the BB is supposed to block bet 
as wide as 4th pair. If we force BTN to cbet, BB call, and the Kc turn 
goes x/x, we see that on a brick river our 77/88 hands want to block 
bet. We want to have two different river sizes, block bet(smaller) and 
big bet. We put our weaker hands like 2nd pair, 3rd pair, weak top pair, 
etc into our block bet size, and our stronger hands into our big bet 
size. It’s important we put a small amount of our strong hands into 
our small bet size so that we still induce some random raises from 
our opponents. We tend to favour our hands that heavily block our 
opponents calling range, like top two pair. 

^block bets r for oop p much when turn goes check check, if checks 
to ip can thinly value bet i think but thats a whole different concept. 

block bets invented to prevent bigger bets on river, however now also 
can be thin value bets 

If we look at the same tree from the POV of the BTN, and we bet 
flop/turn, we can see that the solver thinks AT, QQ, JJ, K3s etc are too 
thin to value bet. This would be a mistake in live poker, and vs the 
average poker player I would be very comfortable finding a third bet 
with these combos for value. 

If people don’t fold enough, we must must must value bet thinly for 
that same reason! 

^along w this should bluff a little less 

  
 
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Block betting is so unbelievably important in poker (oop), particularly 
after the turn has gone x/x. We can see just how thinly the solver likes 
to value bet, and it’s important we are finding these thin bets.  

Deepstack Flop Strategy 

We are going to look at our 3bet pot flop strategy for BTN vs MP and 
SB vs CO and compare the difference to our regular 200bbish 
strategy. 

As mentioned previously, I have run my sims with a 33% and 66% size 
to give a little space between the two sizes. At 200bb and below, when 
we are IP we can use 33% and 50%, but when we are deeper, our IP 
sizes will be 33% and 66% (we need a little more fold equity when 
deeper hence the larger size). 

BTN vs MP 

As we can see from the spreadsheets, the boards that we cbet at a 
very high frequency at a normal stack size adopt a similar strategy 
when deeper; we want to bet really wide on K high, Q high, double 
broadway, and high paired boards. As we know, J high boards will 
always be more connected than a Q high or a K high board; you 
cannot have an unpaired J high board that doesn’t have at least one 
straight draw. We cannot bet J high boards as liberally as Q high & K 
high boards, and when we do bet, we want to use the larger cbet size. 

Another very significant difference in our strategy when deep is how 
much more reserved we must be on the middling/low textures. As we 

  
  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

can see from the sheet, we are supposed to check any board that has 
a flopped straight possible at a VERY high frequency, and 3 liner 
boards like 765, 654 etc are just pure checks. The overall higher 
frequency checking strategy is because of how vulnerable the 
stronger parts of our range are. At 150bb effective, for example, we 
are pretty happy to bet/get-it-in with AA on 853fd, but when we are 
300bb, 400bb deep this would be far less appealing. The equity of 
course doesn’t change at a deeper stack depth, but the vulnerability 
of our range definitely does. 

Whilst we absolutely do not want to check as wide as the 
solver/spreadsheets suggest, we MUST play more conservatively on 
these boards and check much more often than we would at a 
shallower stack depth. We want to be selective with our bluffs, and 
more conservative with our overpairs (particularly the overpairs that 
can lose to our opponent’s overpairs (so 99 on 852 loses to TT/JJ/QQ 
that our opponent can have so we play that a little more passively). 

The solver is checking back any low board that has a flopped straight 
possible with its entire range. Whilst we want to up our checking 
frequency on these types of boards, we only want to check our entire 
range on a 3 liner to a straight. So on 854 we can bet around 30% of 
the time, but on 876 we want to check back almost everything. I’d 
recommend betting my sets/T9s here, and maybe some AK/AQ 
flush-draw combos, and that’s it. We really don’t want to worry about 
balance in this exact spot, and bet our nutted hands and our high 
equity bluffs. 

SB vs CO 

  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

The first thing I want to address (that ties in nicely with the above 
subsection) is the difference in how we play monotone flops when IP 
and when OOP. As we can see from the two spreadsheets, when we 
are IP we get to barrel these monotone flops really quite wide, but 
when we are OOP we have to be much more cautious and do a bunch 
of checking. This is for two reasons. Firstly, the vulnerability of our 
range on a variety of runouts, and secondly because of the range 
construction of this spot; CO has a bunch of flushes that we don’t 
have (like 54s, 65s etc). We get to bet a little wider SB vs EP on 
monotone flops, but we have to be very cautious SB vs BTN, BB vs 
CO etc at this deeper stack depth. 

Again, there are a lot of similarities to our regular stack depth strategy 
and our deeper stack depth strategy; we get to bet really wide on the 
single broadway, double broadway, and a lot of the paired boards. The 
one difference that we can see is that, even on the double broadway 
boards, when there is a flopped straight possible, we have to do much 
more checking. The trend is becoming increasingly clear for both IP 
and OOP deepstack strategy; when our range is more vulnerable 
because of the connectivity of the board, we up our checking 
frequencies significantly. Again, really important we don’t religiously 
follow the solver here on a board like QT8, KJ9 etc. We want to bet 
wider than the solver suggests, but we cannot bet anywhere near as 
wide as we can on a board like KJ6 or AK8. 

If we take a look now at the middling/low textures, this is very similar 
to when we are IP, and we must play these boards much more 
conservatively. One thing that is completely different is our sizing 
scheme; at 200bb and below we are using a 75% cbet size, but at the 
deeper 300bb+ stack depths the solver very clearly prefers using a 
smaller bet size on these textures. I think this will be down to being 

  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

OOP on connected boards that can change quickly on a variety of 
turns, the solver wants to keep the pot size small OOP. 

200bb and below, we use a larger cbet on these lower/connected 
boards, but when deeper we actually prefer using a smaller bet size! 

Button Straddle Games 

I often get asked if straddling the button at every opportunity is +EV 
on a softer table. Whilst there is the benefit of being in position vs a 
table of weaker players, I am very much of the opinion that it is not 
+EV to straddle the BTN at every opportunity. If you are playing 2/5 
you have to put in $7 every orbit for your blinds, and if you are 
straddling the BTN at every opportunity you have to put in $17 every 
orbit. This just doesn’t make it worthwhile. 

I am a big fan of straddling and getting people out of their comfort 
zones, but it is absolutely essential that we are not the only person 
straddling (whether BTN or UTG). Only straddle if the whole table is 
doing it. You can make a very rare exception for doing it once or twice 
if you have a very active fun player that you want to show you aren’t a 
nit, or if they are straddling and you don’t want them to feel tilted that 
nobody else is. Top tip – announce it loudly to the dealer so they see 
it! 

In terms of playing against a button straddle, this is a very important 
topic and one that I think a lot of people make big mistakes in. Firstly 
let’s discuss playing from the blinds. It is extremely important that we 
don’t ‘complete’ too wide from the blinds, as we have 6 or 7 players 
behind us who can raise and make our lives a misery. We want to 

  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

complete from the blinds with hands that can continue vs an open. 
Let’s take a look at what that range should look like. 

When it comes to what our opening range should look like, we must 
remember that 1) we will be OOP vs the BTN very often, and 2) the 
effective stacks for everyone has just halved, so we must realise that 
we are playing shallower and open less as a result. As we’ve seen in 
this module so far, we must be really tight from early position, and 
this rings doubly true when the BTN straddle is on. We can widen our 
range in later position, but even if it folds to us in HJ/CO, we still want 
to select hands that will play well OOP when BTN defends (which they 
will do around 75% of the time). Hands like A6o, K5o, 85s etc will be 
unprofitable opens, and we should aim to choose hands that are 
suited/more connected for better playability postflop OOP. 

Isolating Limpers 

The golden rule of isolating limpers is to ask yourself “would I open 
this hand if the action had folded to me?” If the answer is yes, we can 
isolate. Again if we refer to our opening charts for certain positions, 
we can see what hands we should be isolating with. 

While this above rule is very effective, it doesn’t apply to CO/BTN/SB; 
we cannot isolate hands like K8o, A6o etc that we would open on the 
BTN. We can apply our HJ opening range when we are in CO/BTN/SB 
and isolate this range instead. 

  
  
  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Our isolating size is dependent on 1) how many limpers there are, and 
2) the stack size of the limpers. On average we want to raise to around 
5x when IP and 6x when OOP. If that feels bigger than usual to you, 
please remember that limpers are generally weaker players, and we 
are more than happy to bloat the pot vs their weaker range with our 
stronger range. If players are limping from shorter stacks, we can 
lower our isolating size to 3.5-4bb. There is no set formula for raise 
size vs number of limpers, but we can use a loose rule of 1 extra BB 
per limper. Vs 1 limp we would raise to 5x IP, vs 2 limps we would 
raise to 6x, and so on. In the rare instance there are 6 or 7 limps, we 
would cap our raise size at around 8bb, anything bigger just seems 
unnecessary. 

Overlimping 

It is extremely important that we don’t overlimp too wide in raked 
games. As we have seen from the opening charts, we really do need 
to be quite tight overall, particularly in these SRP/limped pots. We 
want to overlimp hands that can flop extremely well. Hands like 
A2s/A3s/22-66 are great candidates to overlimp with; they can flop 
extremely well, and our low wheel suited aces get to flush-over-flush 
people. Hands like 97s, A5o, K4s etc might seem appealable to 
overlimp, but the reality is that they are often dominated, and we 
should remain disciplined and fold these types of hands. Overlimping 
is something that we don’t do very often at all, but it is important to 
have a feel for the correct types of hands that we would want to do 
this with. Remember, tight is right! 

  
  
 
 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Live heuristics and dynamics (a lot or most of this is about recs): 

-down or up players tend to bluff a little more or thin value bet more. when down, they want to 
bluff or thin value to get back up. when up, they are okay with variance sometimes for bluffing 
more. 

-with multiway pots need better hands to value. top pair becomes not nearly as good in 
multiway, so need stronger hands to be betting versus HU. 

-^ in concession w this, you can and should fold better hands in multiway vs heads up as is 
more likely your behind. 

-getting recs to show hand: make dynamic to show each other hands if you think it gives you 
more advantage then him. also, talking about the hands makes the recs want to show more bc 
they love talking about hands. don’t be predatory tho and just like ask to see hand straight up, 
that can be cold if just trying and trying hard and not good. basically just be cool about it and 
treat them like people. 

^like what steve kurton did first poker tourney. 

for against bad wide rec preflop cold callers (advice is about what to do post flop): 

- check more and make them make mistakes. ex: check oop,and they will almost always bet all 
top pairs and best under pairs, so if they check back you know they aren’t protecting checking 
range enough so more likely a weak range. also, check raise mroe with value hands bc they 
prolly call w hands they stabbed with **can do this bc these rec people see a check and think 
weakness so they bet more marginal hands and almost all top pairs** 

^if you want to bluff people like this, do when they checked back bc checking range is so weak. 
and will likely call w stabbing range since they mostly stab equity and great draws. 

 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

generalization ^^. start conservitaly and bluff high equity hands, but if you see a low top pair 
stabbing it semi confirms this 

 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

later street rec/fish aggressjon a lot of times they actually have it, however this is way too 
general 

lower level players call too much / get sticky so can exploitably under bluff. since they are 
incapable of making big folds can exploitable under bluff. 

in simplistic sense, recs put more money in when they are not good and call bets and raises w 
hands that are average.  

there are spots/reads w board or player that are clear underbluffs or bluffs for specific reasons. 
there are also grey areas where you are unsure if bluffs r good in the spot, and in these grey 
areas we  should tend to not bluff.  

^for recs 

 
 
 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

random live wisdom tips: 

-  be thinking about why your making any bet/bet size at any point and what your 
trying to accomplish, like what parts of their range your targeting w bet/betsize 
(either to get folded or to get calls from or things like that), how population 
tendencies work in this situation, etc.  
think what can i do to make them make a mistake, and what’s the mistake he is 
gonna make. (aka calling 3bets to wide, etc), and how to put yourself in position to 
make money when those mistakes are made. 

- 

- 

Exploiting stuff: 

 
 
 
 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

^maybe more gradual changes  

 
 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Module 6 – Mistakes the Coach Spots Regularly 

PREFLOP 

Adjusting poorly to the rake 

Calling too much multiway in the big blind 

Calling too much in the BB with hands that should be 3bets 

FLOP 

Cbetting too much as the preflop aggressor 

Calling too much instead of raising from the BB 

TURN 

Using non overbet sizes 

Checking too much with no equity turn barrels 

 
 
 
 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Barrelling too much in 3b pots OOP with hands that we should x/jam with 

RIVER 

Checking too much with marginal hands instead of block betting 

Checking too much instead of going for thin value 

PREFLOP 

Adjusting Poorly to the Rake 

Before we talk about the adjustments we want to make to higher rake structures, let’s talk 
about the rake itself, and how much it affects the way we play. I have used PokerStars as 
an example of how the rake compares at different stakes. 

Let’s start with the higher stakes. Assuming we are playing 6 handed games, if we look at 
1/2, we can see that the rake is capped at less than 1.5bb per pot. If we look at 25nl, we 
can see the rake is capped at 8bb per pot. If we look at 5nl, we can see that the rake is 
capped at 20bb per pot. This tells us that the lower stakes we play, the higher the rake is, 
and we need to make significant adjustments as a result. Naturally there are many plays 
that we can make that are very high in EV, but there are certain plays that will be very 
marginal in terms of their EV, and the higher rake structure then starts to make some of 
these plays lower EV. It is extremely important that we are mindful of the rake, and just 
how significant it is at lower stakes. Please note that the preflop charts I am using are 
designed for a 500nl rake structure. 

With that in mind, let’s talk about how we can adjust to the higher rake structures. I am 
going to break this section down into two different parts. The first part will be about 
flatting preflop on the button, and the second will be about playing out the big blind. 

On the button – as we all know, we don’t want to have a flatting range when we are in MP, 
CO or SB. There is actually one scenario where we can have some flats in these 

 
  
  
  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

positions, and that is when we have an absolute maniac behind who we really want to 
play pots with, and even then it’s a pretty narrow flatting range. I am not talking about 
standard recs, or even splashy recs, I’m talking about those once-every-few-months 
maniacs, and even then our flatting range is hands like 88, 99, AQo type hands. Coming 
back to looking at flatting on the button, we are going to use a couple of different charts 
and look at what hands the solver wants to flat vs each position. As we can see from BTN 
vs UTG, the solver will have some low frequency flats with hands like 22-55, 54s, 65s and 
AJo. These hands need to be taken out of our flatting range at 50nl and below. These 
very marginal calls will get eaten up by the rake, particularly the dominated hands like 
65s and K9s. If we take a look at BTN vs CO, we will see that our range of course gets a 
little wider. We now have hands like T8s and A2s to go along with our 65s, 22, J9s type 
hands. Again, we want to trim off the lower parts that are usually very marginal calls at 
best. Naturally as our opponent’s opening range gets wider, our range also gets wider, 
which is why we see us VPIP a hand like ATo vs CO but not vs UTG. 

You might be asking yourself “can we simplify our strategy, and just play 3bet or fold on 
the button given the rake”, and that’s a question that some people think the answer to is 
‘yes’, however even in the higher rake structure I still think we want to have some flats on 
the button. The reason people want to simply play 3bet or fold is to win the pot preflop 
more often and therefore pay no rake in that pot, which is obviously a sound reasoning, 
but I think that playing single raised pots in position is going to be still very profitable, 
providing it’s done with the correct range. My advice is to trim off the marginal calls, up 
our 3bet frequency with the KQs, JJ, AJs type hands, but still call them at a low 
frequency because of how well they play postflop. Case and point, a reg opens in the CO 
with KJo, and you have KQs on the button. If you 3bet, you force your opponent to fold 
their hand, but for the times it comes down K83r it’s still worth having that flatting range. 
A hand like T8s, however, is going to be more dominated and less appealable to flat, and 
THEN you factor in the rake on top, it then makes more sense to 3b this hand the same 
amount our charts suggest, but then folding the rest of the time instead of calling. 

Summary – ditch the marginal flats on the button, up your 3bet frequencies with hands 
that are mixing between 3b and call, and still call at a low frequency with certain hands 
that have your opponent often dominated preflop. A perfect example, CO vs BTN, our 
charts say 3bet AJs and KQs 50%, I would up my frequencies to 75% 3bet, and 25% call. 
One last point that is really important, it’s impossible to memorise your charts and your 
frequencies, so when studying for preflop strategies, simply do your best to have a solid 
grasp on how often you want to 3b certain types of hands as well as calling them, and up 
your 3b frequencies slightly. 

  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Defending the big blind – I firstly want to talk about defending the big blind in general. 
Similarly to the above, we simply want to trim off the bottom parts of our defending 
range. If we look at BB vs UTG (which is actually surprisingly quite wide anyway), we can 
see that we want to defend hands like 42s, J5s, 84s, A9o and T9o. At 200nl and above, 
these are of course fine, but defending these at 25nl for example will be haemorrhaging 
money. Again just to reiterate the point, if UTG opens to 2.2bb, and you are the only 
caller, there should be 4.9bb in the middle. At 200nl, more of that 4.9bb pot will still be in 
the middle after rake is taken out, but at 25nl much more of that pot will already be gone 
due to the rake. As one very quick sidenote for those of us watching, it goes without 
saying that in live poker the exact same rule applies. If you are playing a timed game you 
get to defend EXTREMELY wide, but if you are playing 2/5 for example, then you’ve just 
got to play so much tighter than you might realise when it comes to defending the big 
blind. 

If we look at BB vs BTN now, we again see an understandably very wide range that wants 
to defend. Again, in a higher rake environment, we just can’t defend as wide as this. 
Hands like 76o, A3o, 93s, 52s etc become very clear folds. The next point is really quite 
important, and will hopefully help you determine just how much tighter you have to play 
from the BB… 

When we are looking at a more narrow range like BTN flat vs UTG open, we want to trim 
off a small amount of that range. When, however, we are looking at a really wide range 
like BB vs BTN defend, we trim off a much bigger part of that range. 

The next two parts of this module are no longer about the rake per se, but what we are 
about to look at will fortunately also help us avoid paying unnecessary rake. 

Calling too much in the BB multiway 

I have managed to secure some multiway preflop defending ranges for the purpose of 
this module. Again, these are rake adjusted for 500nl, but even without that fact, I’m 
really hopeful that these will be quite eye opening in terms of just how much tighter we 
should be when calling multiway out of the big blind. Our first example is UTG opens to 
2.2BB, BTN calls, and we are defending out of the big blind. Let’s firstly take a look at 

  
  
  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

some of the hands that just aren’t in there/aren’t pure calls. ATo and KTo are pure folds, 
QTo and QJo are only in there sometimes, and hands like Q2s, J7s, 84s and 32s are just 
never/rarely in there. It is EXTREMELY important that we don’t just shrug our shoulders, 
and click call with hands like this because we think we are priced in or that we’re closing 
the action so we can call really wide. How dominated our hand is far outweighs the price 
we are getting or anything else for that matter. It’s also really important to understand 
that when there are more players in the pot, the equity of our hand goes down and 
therefore we’re going to be doing more poorly postflop. Factor in a higher rake 
environment at the micros and we can clearly see that a lot of us are calling way too wide 
multiway out of the big blind (myself included!). Again, if we change this to look at CO 
open, BTN call and what our defending range looks like, we see that it is not very wide at 
all, 16.28% in fact. Just look at all these suited hands that you might think are calls (85s, 
J2s, 74s, 32s etc), along with the fact that the solver is MIXING with QJo/JTo etc. I really 
do think this will be eye opening to a lot of us, and we can now start to drastically tighten 
up our calling ranges out of the big blind multiway. I think it’s also important to say that 
this isn’t a spot you can really study and nail down your ranges/frequencies on, so the 
main point of this subsection is too simply advise you to be more mindful of how much 
we might need to tighten up from the big blind multiway. 

Calling too much in the BB with hands that should be 3bets 

When asked to make this module, this was the very first thing that sprung to mind. It is 
such a common leak, and one that all lower stakes players have. It is extremely easy to 
think that you know your preflop charts and you are 3betting well from the big blind, but 
the reality is you are almost certainly not 3betting enough. You can check this right now 
in your tracking software by filtering for your 3bet stat BB vs UTG, MP, CO, BTN, and SB. 
It should be approximately as follows… 

BB vs UTG – 6% 

BB vs MP – 7.8% 

BB vs CO – 10.2% 

BB vs BTN – 14.9% 

BB vs SB – 19% 

  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

I want to look at three different preflop charts to signify where the leaks arise. 

BB vs UTG – we can see that our 3betting range isn’t that wide, and therefore the reason I 
have chosen this chart is a reminder that we want to 3bet hands like 76s, Q9s, A2s at 
some frequency. It’s easy to just click the call button, but these hands play well as a 3bet 
and that’s why they are in there. This is another nice way for us to not pay any rake, by 
ensuring we are 3betting correctly from the BB with these infrequent hands and taking 
the pot down pre more often. Be sure that you are mindful of these hands that want to 
3bet and aren’t just always calling them. 

BB vs BTN – similar to the above, there are a lot of hands like 54s and A2s type hands 
that we need to be mindful to 3bet at some frequency with, but the wider the opening 
range, the more extravagant hands we have in our range that will for sure be slipping 
some of our minds. As we can see from BB vs BTN, we should now be 3betting hands 
like J7s, ATo, 64s, Q8s and K6s. It’s really important to remember that these hands are 
3bets at some frequency because that is a higher EV option than just calling, so if we are 
currently not 3betting these hands then we are costing ourselves EV. 

BB vs SB – taking it one step further from the above range, we can see that BB vs SB is 
just a whole other animal itself. Not only are we in position, but the SB is opening 
extremely wide, and we can deny so much equity by following this 3bet chart as closely 
as we can. For example, think of all the ace highs that the SB opens that they have to fold 
when we 3bet our K6o. It’s a very wide 3b range, and of course the most polarised range 
that we will see, but it’s just so important to find these T7o, T2s, A2o, K5o type hands at 
some frequency instead of just always calling them, and that’s before we even consider 
the higher rake structure! 

Cbetting too much as the preflop aggressor 

I want to look at several different scenarios as the preflop aggressor where I feel like 
players cbet too much. Generally at lower stakes you want to be cbetting a little wider 
(particularly when in position), as you will be faced with less raises, and therefore you 
get to realise your equity/make people fold on the turn more often. There are, however, 
many scenarios where we do want to be checking at a higher frequency than people 
realise, and we can increase our EV by mixing in more checks in certain scenarios. It’s 
really important that we understand that the upcoming material is not focusing on 

  
  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

studying the particular scenarios, but focusing more on the reasons we are checking 
more frequently, and how we can apply that line of thinking to our own game. 

SB vs BB SRP – one of my previous modules focused on playing SRPs out of position vs 
the button, so I’m not going to select an example from that part of the game tree because 
there’s already plenty of content out there on that subject. SB vs BB however we are 
going to see an eye opening number of different boards that we are checking so much 
on. If we look at our SB vs BB spreadsheet we can quickly identify the types of boards 
we get to cbet extremely wide on. These two parts are really key to determining what 
types of boards we cbet less frequently on when OOP: 1) how good the board is for our 
range, and 2) how much resistance we will bet met with when cbetting. 

A perfect example of this is K76r and Q72r. They are both single broadway boards that 
are similar in terms of how good they are for us, but we can see that we cbet so much 
less often on K76 than we do on Q72. The reason for this is that on Q72 our opponent 
can’t continue with so many 85s, 84s, 98o etc type hands, but of course on K76, our cbet 
success rate is lower, and therefore we can’t cbet as wide. An even further example of 
this is evident on the lower textures. Boards like 763 are virtually pure checks. This is a 
combination of the two points above. It’s nowhere near as good a board for us as KJ4r, 
and our cbet is much less likely to be successful, so our range is forced into checking. 

Coming back to the overall purpose of this module, and the answer to the question of 
“what mistake do you regularly see people make as a coach?” is that people cbet too 
much OOP, and don’t recognise situations where they should be checking at a higher 
frequency than they currently are. When we are OOP, we are more likely to be floated, 
and if we are betting too wide, our range is too wide on the turn, and we end up check 
folding way too much. Let’s protect our range by upping our checks with the right type of 
hands. 

Boards that are really bad for our range – I’m going to use some very extreme but also 
very eye opening examples for this subsection. Let’s say we are UTG and we open. The 
big blind defends, and we go heads up to 543r. The big blind checks. We have some 
strong hands here. We have 76s, 55, 44 and 33 at some frequency. You’d be completely 
forgiven for initially thinking that we cbet all those hands at a very high frequency, 
however if we take a look at the solver, we can actually see that we are checking back 
virtually our entire range on this flop. We can compare this to 643fd to see a very clear 
trend here: on these lower/middling boards that are extremely connected, we want to be 
doing very little cbetting overall (and on the REALLY low/connected boards we can see 

  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

that we don’t do any cbetting at all). It’s important to understand why we aren’t cbetting 
that much here, and the reason is something we call ‘range composition’. If we look at 
the BB’s range, we can see that the BB has 42s, 74s, 53s, 63s that EP doesn’t have, along 
with sets/2p at a much higher frequency. Whilst BB’s overall equity is doing okay on this 
board, we just have so few nutted hands here, and therefore our range can’t justify 
cbetting very often at all, and we are forced to do so much checking back. If we look at a 
less extreme example of T97fd, we see a higher frequency cbet, but still a very low 
overall cbet frequency. 

Let’s change the scenario now to CO vs BB (note that I have changed the cbet size from 
50% to 71%). We can look at a few different boards and see that there is a very similar 
trend going on here. It’s not as extreme as EP vs BB, but our cbet frequencies are still 
VERY low on so many boards. This confirms to us that this is not just an EP/MP vs BB 
thing, it’s very much a trend that we need to incorporate into our strategy across the 
board. 

Again, if we ask the question of “what mistake do you see regularly as a coach?”, the 
answer here is clearly that there are so many different types of boards that people are 
cbetting WAY too wide on, and again our checking frequencies as the preflop aggressor 
need to increase. Hopefully we now have a better grasp of the types of boards we want to 
be checking more often on, and why. My advice going forward would be to take a longer 
look at those types of boards, and the range that wants to bet/check on them. 

Calling too many cbets instead of raising – I am going to re-visit some previous module 
work now and look at our BB strategy when facing a cbet. Instead of typing out a few 
paragraphs here, we are going to look at two or three different boards and familiarise 
ourselves with our raising range from the BB when facing a cbet. I have chosen BTN vs 
BB for this part as both ranges are really wide. 

Q75r 

TT2r 

952fd 

K83r 

  
  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

TURN 

Using non overbet sizes – this is again a really common leak in beginners that I see as a 
coach when it comes to turn play. It’s something that can be easily rectified by 
recognising scenarios where we want to be very polarised with our turn size. Let’s take a 
look at a few different boards and see just how polarised the solver wants to be in certain 
spots. 

K94r BTN vs BB – before we look at our turn strategy, it’s important to note that on this 
flop we are betting 88% of our range (and of course can simplify and bet our entire 
range). Our opponent is folding approximately 34% of their range, which means that IP 
arrives to the turn with a wider range with more air in it, and OOP’s range has less air, is 
more condensed and is therefore doing well on so many turns. We can see this when we 
look at the equity throughout each action leading up to the turn. This is important 
because it helps us to understand why we generally favour overbet sizes. We can look at 
all the turn cards at once and see that we aren’t doing much betting overall when we get 
to the turn, and our sizing scheme reflects this. 

T62r BTN vs BB – we are going to compare this board with a few different boards, all of 
which use a larger cbet size on the flop and bet less frequently than the K94r we have 
just looked at. We’ll see a few different anomalies in our turn strategy (and these 
anomalies identify the difficulty/frustration that we can all relate to when it comes to 
solver work). As we can see on T62r, we want to overbet the overcards up to the king. As 
we can see on 732fd, we want to overbet the 8x and 9x turns, but use a standard 75% bet 
size on the broadway turns. If we look at T42fd we can see that it’s quite similar to the 
T62r, and then if we look at 954r we will see it is similar to 732fd. The mistake I see here 
as a coach is that there are clearly some spots where we want to play overbets on 
overcard turns, but a lot of the time people don’t tend to find these overbets. We want to 
keep our strategy nice and simple and use an overbet size on the overcards on T high 
flops, but on the 8 high flops for example, it’s only the 9x and Tx that we find the overbet 
on. It’s really important to find these overbets, and the reason why lies in how much the 
OOP player must fold. Please note that we wouldn’t overbet on a straight completing 
overcard (like T92Q), and that we still overbet on brick turns (like T923). 

Checking too much with non-equity turn barrels – this is without a doubt the hardest part 
of this module to master, and one that you must study in depth/be comfortable with 

  
  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

before implementing. The “non equity” turn barrel range doesn’t need to be particularly 
vast, and mainly centres around your blockers. Gone are the days when you barrel the 
turn with equity only. Let’s take a look at a couple of different boards, both SRPs and 
3BPs. 

Q84r SRP BTN vs BB – BTN opens, and cbets basically their entire range on this flop. On 
this 2x turn, we clearly have some equity barrels like A5, A3, JT and 65. We can also 
clearly see that we have some barrels in there that are not a straight/flush draw, and we 
class these as “no equity barrels”. As we can see, the range doesn’t have to be 
particularly wide, and it centres round our blockers/unblockers. For example, our no 
equity turn barrels almost never contain an ace in this spot, because an ace blocks a lot 
of the hands we are trying to make fold (think of all the Ax that float the flop from OOP). 
We use these K6s/K5s type hands because they have an overcard, which gives us 3 
clean outs vs a hand like QJo for example, but we’ll also find some J7s/J6s type hands in 
there as well, and that’s because the J blocks QJ, and the 5/6/7 kicker don’t block too 
many hands we are trying to make fold. We can sum this up really nicely by saying that a 
hand like T9s has more equity than K5s, but T9s blocks so many J9o, T9o, KTo type calls 
that OOP has, whereas K5s unblocks more hands that we’re trying to make fold. 

A82r BB vs SB 3BP – I want us to look at the 5h turn here for a very nice insight into our 
turn barrelling range. We have plenty of hands here that pick up a flush draw/gutshot that 
want to keep barrelling, but let’s take a look at our JTs/QJs type hands. These hands 
block our opponent’s best top pairs, and if we force the solver to bet the turn and shove 
the river for IP, we can see these combos blast off very often, and what’s more interesting 
is if we look at OOPs reaction to a triple barrel. We can see OOP calling the river with 
AQ/AJ, and folding AT/A9/some weaker Ax at some frequency. This means that QJ/JT 
block our opponent’s best hands to call with, which is a perfect example of a turn/river 
barrel with no equity, that instead focuses on blockers! 

KK6r BTN vs CO 3BP – once again I want to take a very quick look at our turn barrelling 
range here for IP. We bet our entire range on the flop, and if we really focus on our turn 
barrelling combos on a 4d turn, we will see such a nice insight into our 
blockers/unblockers theory. Let’s start with our AQs combos. We continue to barrel 
AQdd because we’ve picked up equity, and we continue to barrel AQhh because AQhh 
doesn’t block hands like AJss/ATcc that float the flop and then have to fold the turn. 
Again, our unblockers are extremely good here with AQhh. Let’s now look at our QJs 
combos. Again, we bet QJdd because we have picked up a flush draw, but we can also 
bet our QJhh/QJcc combos, and this is because if we look at the Kx cards on the flop, 
QJhh/QJcc block KQs/KJs best, and they make it into our turn barrelling range. QJss has 

  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

not picked up any equity, and also has really bad blockers, so we bet this way less often. 
If we change the turn to the 4h, we can see that QJss/QJdd become lower frequency turn 
barrels, but QJhh/QJcc are always betting, and this is to do with our blockers. Two really 
awesome examples here of our unblockers, and our blockers for no equity turn barrels! 

Barrelling too much in 3b pots OOP with strong hands 

A really fun topic for us to look at now, and one that is again really important/a big leak 
that we can plug. We’re going to look at SB vs BTN on a few different boards, and focus 
mainly on our value hands here. 

Q72r – first thing’s first, let’s look at all the turn cards and the difference in our barrelling 
frequencies. If we look at the equity our range has on each turn card, we can see that the 
lower cards are really not as good for us as the higher cards, and our betting frequency 
should reflect that. The reason for this is that we are betting our entire range on the flop, 
and our opponent folds out their air/marginal hands, so we arrive to the turn with a super 
wide range, and IP’s range is condensed into stronger hands. So with that in mind, let’s 
take a look at our strategy on these lower turn cards. On the 4c, for example, we have so 
much air that wants to just give up that we must protect our checking range with some 
strong hands. We protect that range with our weaker top pairs like Q9s that want to 
check/call turn and check/call river, and we also have some really strong hands that like 
to check/shove. AQs, AQo and AA without a club are basically always check/jamming 
when they do check. 

If we come back to the original question asked in the module, “what mistakes do you see 
that are very common in cash games?” this is very much one of those mistakes. In 3bet 
pots OOP we must not barrel super wide on the turns that are really bad for our range, 
and as a results we must protect our checking range with some really strong hands that 
want to check/jam! 

972r – I have purposefully chosen a different type of board because there is one last 
point I want to make which is really important. This isn’t so much about us finding 
check/jams on the turn, but about the importance of us finding flop checks. The general 
trend is very similar here in terms of what turns are better or worse for our range, and 

  
  
  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

again our betting frequencies must reflect this. If we look at the 3h turn here, we will see 
some checks with our 77/QQ/KK and very often with our AA. It is REALLY important that 
we find these checks with our strongest hands on a lower board, and the reason for that 
lies in our opponent’s flop calling range. Let’s look at all of these KQss, QJcc, QTdd etc 
type hands that float the flop. These hands all pick up 0 equity on the turn, and if we are 
just always betting our AA here, our opponent gets to just laugh in our face and fold all 
their floats. If we force the solver to check for OOP on the turn, we can see that so many 
of these hands now start to bluff. We want to allow our opponent to start blasting all their 
flop floats! 

River 

Checking too much instead of going for thin value – this is by far one of the biggest leaks 
that I see in lower stakes players. I am going to select some examples and show you just 
how wide the solver wants to bet in certain situations. 

Q52r BB vs BTN SRP – if we force the BTN to cbet the flop, and the turn to go x/x on a 
bricky runout, we will see just how thinly the solver wants to bet for value here. We can 
see that the solver wants to bet as wide as 3rd pair with no kicker in this specific 
scenario. This is due to just how wide the BTN’s range is, and all the worse hands 3rd 
pair can get called by. If we were to look at an EP vs BB scenario, we would see a 
narrower range betting the river. It’s important that we recognise situations where our 
opponent’s range is very wide, and therefore go for what might be perceived as “thin 
value”, especially in these smaller pots. One of the advantages of betting wider in these 
spots (and using a block size in the process) is that people tend to play very poorly vs 
these river block bets, and we therefore force our opponent into a lot of mistakes. Case 
and point, on Q5272, we can see that when we block the river, our opponent is supposed 
to raise around 20% of the time, but people at lower stakes games will raise here 3 or 4% 
of the time at the very most. So let’s recognise spots where our opponent’s range is very 
wide, they are somewhat capped, they have enough worse hands we can get called by, 
and widen our betting range. 

Playing Your Range Advantage 

Say we open the button, the BB calls, and the flop comes down K83r. The BTN has a very 
clear equity advantage on this board, 54.5%. Let's quickly jump ahead and think about 
who has the nut advantage. What would we consider the nuts on this board? KK, 88, 33, 
K8 & K3. The BTN always has KK and 88, while the BB never has KK and only has 88 

  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

around 50% of the time. That means that despite this being a very good board for the 
BTN (and the BTN holding an equity advantage), there is actually a small nut advantage 
for the BTN here. 88, 33, K8 & K3 are all split relatively evenly between both players. This 
means that the BTN has a significant range advantage, but only a small nut advantage. In 
these “wide ranges vs wide ranges” spots, that's going to be relatively common; the 
preflop aggressor will hold the range advantage, but only a slight nut advantage. There 
are of course spots where the preflop aggressor will have the equity advantage AND a 
significant nut advantage, and we'll get to those in due course. 

The solver will very often use a small size alongside that equity advantage to put the 
other player's range into an uncomfortable spot. We do this very often as the preflop 
aggressor, spots like the above K83r are very common, and we'll also see the same in 
3bet pots, spots like K76 BTN vs CO. This time ranges are much narrower than the 
previous example, and the nutted combos start to become wider. AA or AK wouldn't be 
considered a nutted hand in the first example, but in a 3bet pot when the SPR gets lower 
and ranges are narrower, these hands start to be considered extremely strong hands. 

Let's look at a third scenario here, one where we are not the preflop aggressor. Say the 
BTN opens, the SB 3bets, and the BTN calls. The flop comes down 752hhs. The SB has 
an ever so slight equity advantage here of 51.2%, but let's look what happens when the 
SB checks. Before the BTN acts, the SB's equity drops down to 48.4%, which means that 
the BTN now has the equity advantage. On the face of it, it might not look like a 
particularly huge equity advantage, but given the SB is the preflop aggressor and has all 
the overpairs in their range, it is actually a little bigger than it initially looks. If we take a 
look at the BTN's preferred size, we will see that the same logic applies in this spot as 
when the BTN cbets really wide on K83r; the BTN here likes to use smaller sizes, and 
bets very wide. 

This is because it can force a lot of the SB's range into an uncomfortable spot with this 
small size, folding out 25% of the SB's range, and forcing them to make some very 
marginal/breakeven/even some ever so slightly losing calls with hands like KJcc. We can 
also see that the solver check/calls with K6cc (no backdoor flush) in theory, and in reality 
nobody is doing that, so our small bets are going to be even more effective than this. 

Let's look at one last scenario. Say MP opens, the BTN calls, everyone else folds, and the 
flop is 843r. MP is opening approximately 22% of hands, and the BTN is calling 
approximately 6% of hands. This means that MP's range has got lots of air on a board 
like this, and the BTN's condensed flatting range is doing quite well. If we look at the 

  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

equities, we can see that the BTN has 53.9% equity. If we look at the BTN's betting 
strategy, we can see the same trend as the previous three examples. We can also take a 
look in the reports tab to see the very obvious trend of stabbing much less frequently 
(and for a larger size) on the higher boards. 

When we hold an equity advantage we want to press that equity advantage by betting 
frequently for a small size, even if we do not have a significant nut advantage! 

In the first two examples we were betting our entire range. Let's take a look at our betting 
range in the other two examples where we weren't quite betting our entire range. As we 
can see, we get to bet very wide, and we get to choose a ton of lower equity bluffs. We 
get to do both of these things because of our equity advantage, and the fact that we are 
in position. Unlike the first two examples, however, we cannot simply bet our entire 
range. This is because in both examples the OOP player is playing a high frequency 
check strategy, and whilst their range is at an equity disadvantage here, they are 
uncapped, and we simply cannot bet our entire range into an uncapped range that still 
contains lots of strong hands. 

When we are the preflop aggressor, if we hold an equity advantage and have a middling 
nut advantage, we can bet extremely wide for a small size. When we are the preflop caller 
and have an equity advantage, we get to stab wide for a small size, but cannot bet our 
entire range. 

When our global frequency is high, we get to find more low/non equity bluffs. When our 
global frequency is low, our bluffs really centre around equity! 

Playing Your Nut Advantage 

We have seen some scenarios where one player has a range advantage, but not a 
significant nut advantage. We are now going to look at a variety of scenarios where there 
is a significant nut advantage, and understand how it alters our strategy. Gone are the 

  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

days where we automatically check to the aggressor on the previous street, we need to 
be really mindful of things like equity shifts and nut advantage and apply it to our game! 

Playing your Nut Advantage as the Preflop Raiser in SRPs – we've taken a look already in 
this module at boards like K83 where the nut advantage is middling/slightly favourable 
for the preflop aggressor. Let's take a look now at some boards where the nut advantage 
is very obvious. Let's look at BTN vs BB SRP, and compare the difference between how 
we play A75 and AK6. On A75, the BTN's nut advantage is middling as the BB has A5o, 
A7o, A7s, 75s, 55 & 77. On AK6, however, the BB has A6, K6 and 66, but the BTN has all 
of the AA/KK/AK combos that the BB just never has. This means that the BTN has a 
significant nut advantage on this board. 

The way the solver approaches this spot is very interesting; it likes to press its nut 
advantage by using very large bets. We can clearly see that it never bets 33%, 50%, or 
even 75% for that matter. It is actually favouring using an overbet here. Before we talk 
about why that is, let's take a look at the reports tab and compare AK6 to similar types of 
boards. If we scroll through the ace high boards we see the solver favouring 33% as a 
cbet size until we get to ATx, where it CLEARLY prefers using the overbet size. 

Another very telling piece of information that we have here is that there are some Ax 
double broadway boards where we aren't using overbet only, and those are monotone 
flops, paired boards, and boards with a flopped straight possible. We do not hold a 
significant nut advantage on AJJ, or AK8hhh, or AQT, and the fact that the solver doesn't 
use overbet only on those three boards tells us one very important thing – the solver is 
using the overbet size because of the significant nut advantage that it holds on those 
boards. 

Before we talk about why the solver is bombing it here, let's change the positions to see 
if the solver is consistent with this sizing scheme. Let's change the open position to the 
HJ. Again, if we look at the Ax double broadway boards we can see a similar trend, but 
not an exact replica of the BTN's strategy. The BTN was very clearly favouring an overbet 
only size, but on ATx and AJx boards, the HJ is sort of mixing between a variety of bigger 
sizes (quick side note – we are never going to be splitting between four sizes here, so 
whilst GTOWizard is a handy tool for a general overview, PIO will always be king as you 
get to mirror your exact strategy). If we look at AQx and AKx boards, we see once again 
really favouring the big size, especially on AKx boards. The difference between AJ4 and 
AK6 is clear here; because we open in MP, the BB will call way more often with AJ (and 

  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

even JJ), but of course the BB will always 3bet with AK and KK, so our nut advantage is 
much more significant on AK6. 

Given the holistic nature of this module, I am not going to spend time defining what our 
exact sizes should be, instead we will talk about when to use bigger sizes, and why. We 
have seen the solver use huge sizes when it holds a significant nut advantage, let's talk 
now about why that is. Given the nut advantage is so significant, the solver wants to 
have the ability to play for stacks by the river. If you bet 33% or 50% and overbet the turn, 
you still can't really shove the river as the SPR is too low. If you overbet the flop and 
overbet the turn, you have set up a reasonable SPR to allow you to press your nut 
advantage all the way and shove the river. In short, your nut advantage is so significant 
here that you want to be able to play for all the money, which is a pretty cool concept to 
see in the solver. 

You might ask yourself, does the same concept apply in a 3bet pot? There are some 
instances where the solver holds a significant nut advantage and will use big bets in 
surprising situations, but for the most part we will still be using a smaller cbet size in 
3bet pots. I am not going to write the answer here, but instead invite you to pause the 
module and think about why that may be. The hint lies with why the solver wants to bomb 
it on the flop in a single raised pot. 

The way that we press our nut advantage in 3bet pots is to bet extremely wide. We have 
many examples to choose from, and instead of zoning in on a specific board, let's use 
the reports tab to look at BTN vs CO in a 3bp on the single/doublebroadway boards. We 
can clearly see that the solver is betting virtiually its entire range for either a 33% or a 
50% size. 

Playing Your Nut Advantage as the Preflop Caller – earlier in this video I said “gone are 
the days where we automatically check to the aggressor on the previous street, we need 
to be really mindful of things like equity shifts and nut advantage and apply it to our 
game”, and that very much applies to what we are going to look at here. I'm going to 
break this down into two subsections... 

SRPs – before we delve into this topic, it's really important for me to say that the limits 
you are playing will drastically impact our strategy here. Given the difference in rake 
between 5nl and 500nl, there are certain hands that we cannot defend in the big blind at 

  
  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

lower stakes. GTOWizard don't have reports set up for 50nl rake with a 2.5x open size, so 
I will continue with 500nl rake structure and a minraise. 

Let's look at our strategy from the big blind after we have defended vs a HJ open. If we 
use our reports tab again, the first thing we should notice is that if we are simply always 
checking to the preflop aggressor, we are costing ourselves some EV. The reports tab 
gives us a very clear overview of where we should be leading (and where we should not 
be leading). If we look at these lower boards like 654 and 542, we can clearly see that we 
need to develop a leading strategy on these low boards that we hold a nut advantage on. 
Our overall lead frequency on all of the boards is 2.7%, but if we filter for 8 high and 
below, it jumps to 12%. If we filter again for connected boards, it jumps up to 22%. If we 
should be leading on average 22% of the time on a specific type of board, we are 
definitely costing ourselves EV by just checking to our opponent. 

If we look at a board like 653r, we can see that we are very pair heavy with our leads, 
leading our 22, J3, T5s etc at a reasonable frequency. Our natural bluffs are very easy to 
spot, leading with a bunch of 4x and 7x combos. We also get to lead so many hands like 
J9s and K8s with a BDFD, these hands that have two overs, backdoor draws and minimal 
showdown are completely fine to lead with, and they will continue to barrel on the turn 
when they pick up equity. 

My last piece of advice on this spot is that the solver's leading frequency changes 
drastically if you change the board ever so slightly. If we look at 632fd for example, we 
can see that we lead here virtually never, so it is really important that we have a solid 
understanding of exactly what boards to lead (and what boards not to lead) before we 
implement this strategy. Rainbow boards where we hold a significant straight advantage 
will get lead way more than a board where we don't have a significant straight advantage 
or if there is a FD possible! 

Before we move on to the next subsection, I want to take a look at the same spot for BTN 
vs BB. We have to remember that the BTN's range is going to be wider here, so our lead 
frequency is going to decrease on certain boards. We still get to lead on boards where 
we have all the straights, and our opponent has none of the straights, like 653 for 
example. If we change the board to 864, where we do not have a straight or 2p advantage, 
we are basically just never leading. We need to REALLY think about the nut advantage in 
this spot before we can consider leading. If it is significant, we get to lead very wide, if it 
is middling/we do not hold a nut advantage, our lead frequency reduces 
drastically/becomes non existent! 

  
  
  
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

3bet Pots – if we choose a couple of different scenarios where we have called a three bet 
out of position, we will see a very clear trend on when to lead out. Let's look at HJ vs CO, 
and we can clearly see that any board that has a three card straight will get lead out on 
extremely often. This is purely down to our nut advantage. If we take 654fd and look at 
the breakdown of each player's range, we have far more straights         
, sets and 
two pairs than our opponent does. This means that we have a nut advantage, and we 
want to press that nut advantage. Again, given we have a global frequency of 60.6% here, 
we get to lead out with tons of hands like KJ and QT because our range can support it. 
It's really similar to why you get to cbet Q2hh on Kc8s3d BTN vs BB SRP, because your 
range can support it. 

Let's compare this to a board like 743. We have far less flopped straights, no flopped two 
pair, and not too many flopped sets here, so our lead frequency goes down significantly. 
Once again it is very important that we are not leading out at a very high frequency on 
boards that we are not supposed to, and that we have an understanding of what types of 
boards we should lead out on, and the difference between a 765 and a 743. 

overbets: 

■  Do NOT overbet on boards that are unfavorable or static paired 

boards. 

■  Do NOT overbet in situations where your opponent can 

reasonably have many combos of the nuts (or near nuts). 

■  DO overbet on boards that are favorable for you. 
■  DO overbet on boards where you block the nuts. 
■  Main overbet situations: 

■  Three flush with the nut flush/nut flush blocker. 
■  Straight boards when the IP player is barreling and a 
straight completes that the OOP player can't have. 

■  When preflop range asymmetries allow for 

overbetting, such as a QJTxx type board where only 
the preflop raiser can have AK. 

  
  
 
 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

■  We should mainly have two sizes when betting on the river on a 3 

flush board: 

■  1. A “regular” 65-75% pot sizing with our value bets that are 
not the nuts (with some flushes mixed in order for that range 
to not be vulnerable against check-raises) 

■  2. A big bet size representing the nut flush (maybe the 

second nuts) or air, usually blocking villain’s nut flush or 
second nut flush. 

■  Now let’s revisit the poker math behind the profitability of 

overbets. 

■  If we make a pot size bet on the river, we should have two 
value bets for each bluff (this calculation is based on pot 
odds → villain needs to be “right” 33% of the time according 
to pot odds (bet / pot before bet + bet + call) → we need to be 
bluffing (so he’ll be “right”) 33% of the time → this way we 
make him indifferent to calling. 

■  Now let’s look at a hand in which Doug makes a massive 13.5x 
pot (yes, you read that right) overbet on the river after checking 
three times. 

■  In this hand, Doug is playing a little 50/100 heads-up against 

Sauce123. 

■  Sauce opens to $250 on the BTN and Doug defends 

his BB with A♦ 2♥. 

■  Flop ($500): 5♦ 9♦ 6♦. Doug checks; Sauce123 checks. 
■  Turn ($500): J♣. Doug checks; Sauce 123 checks. 
■  River ($500): 3♥. Doug checks; Sauce123 bets $353; 

Doug raises all-in to $14,348. Sauce123 folds. 

■  Doug chose to show this hand because there is an interesting 

concept to take away from it. 

■  When you are going for these massive overbets, you 
definitely want to block the nuts (the nut flush, in this 
hand). However, if you pick all of your A♦ hands, you 
will be severely overbluffing. 

 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

■  Therefore, in order to control your frequencies, you 

should start by raising your A♦ with the lowest kicker 
(A2, in this case). 

■  In the hand above, Doug claims to have about 5 

combinations of value bets. So if he has 4 combos of 
bluff with A♦ 2x, along with maybe one more (such as 
A♦ 4♠) he will be close to perfectly balanced on the 
river. 

■  This video featured a particularly interesting hand (@01:29). 
■  Doug is playing $100/$200 HU with antes against Wilhasha, 

who opens on the BTN and Doug defends on the BB with A♥ 
2♣. 

■  Flop ($1,080) 8♥ 2♥ T♠. Doug checks, Wilhasha bets $646.80, 

Doug calls. 

■  Turn ($2,373) 3♥. Doug checks, Wilhasha bets $1778.70, Doug 

calls. 

■  River ($5,931) 4♣. Doug checks, Willhasha bets $4446, Doug 

shoves for $18,813 effective. 

■  On this river, we are looking to call down with our Tx 

and our 8x that have strong flush blockers. 

■  Therefore, our bluff raises should be our A♥ X hands 

that cannot quite call. 

■  Doug says that hands that work very well as bluffs in 
this spot are A♥ 4x, A♥ 3x, and A♥ 2x. However, if we 
use all of these combos, we would already have 9 
combos of bluffs for around 4 or 5 nut flushes and 4 
or 5 combos of the second nut flush. 

■  Therefore, as Doug says, we would probably be 

overbluffing if we bluff raise A♥ 2x every time. That 
being said, he also believes that overbluffing on these 
spots can be quite profitable from an exploitative 
standpoint since many players get scared and fold too 
much. 

 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

■  Generally on straight boards, we like to overbet when our 

opponents’ range is capped (cannot / are very unlikely to have the 
nuts or other very strong hands given the action). 

■  An important point to remember is that, even though an overbet 
allows us to bluff with more hands, the biggest part of our range 
will still often want to bet for a regular sizing. 

■  In other words, overbetting allows us to have more bluffs only in 

comparison to when we are value betting for that overbet size. The 
reason for this is that our range features only a small amount of 
hands that are actually willing to play for stacks. As a result of 
that, we still have to be very selective when picking which hands to 
overbet with (but not overly picky to a point where we are not 
bluffing enough). 

■  A good way to select those bluffs, according to Doug, is to pick the 
nut low hands in your range and use them as an overbet bluff in 
order to fulfill the criteria of having enough bluff combos. 

■  Another very important factor to consider when overbet bluffing 

(and bluffing, generally speaking) is our removal. We do not want 
to bluff with hands that block villain’s folding range and we want to 
block their calling range. 

■  Now let’s take a look at a heads-up hands played between 
Doug and our fellow Upswing coach Daniel "DANMERR" 
Merrilees. 

■  They were playing $50/$100. Doug opens to $238 on the 

BTN/SB with 5♦ 3♦ and DANMERR calls. 

■  The flop ($476) comes 4♠ K♠ 6♣. DANMERR checks, and Doug 
bets $322.32 with this clear Category 3 hand. DANMERR calls. 

■  Turn ($1,120.64) is A♥. DANMERR decides to lead small for 

$300, Doug raises to 1,881, and DANMERR calls. 

■  River ($4,882.92) is 5♣. DANMERR checks, Doug shoves for 

19,725, DANMERR calls. 

■  There are three main takeaways from this hand: 

■  1. We need to have two bet sizes on this river. A 

regular one for our good-but-not-nutted value bets 

 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

such as two pairs or bottom set, and an overbet one 
with our nutted hands (namely straights and some 
sets as well). And don’t forget to allocate enough 
bluffs for both of these ranges! 

■  2. When the river is favorable for us, we’re gonna 
barrel at a much higher frequency given that our 
range just got much stronger. 

■  3. Carefully take removal effects into account when 

choosing what hands to bluff with. 

■  In this video, Doug reviewed what he describes as a “pretty 

cool hand” (@07:50). 

■  The game was $25/$50 HU on PokerStars and he was playing 

against asianflushie. 

■  Doug opens to $140 on the BTN/SB with A♠ J♥. Villain calls on 

the BB. 

■  Flop ($280) comes K♥ 2♣ J♠. BB checks, Doug checks. 
■  Turn ($280) is the Q♦. BB bets $175. Doug calls. 
■  River ($630) is the 9♠. BB bets $400. Doug goes all in for $4,810 

total. 

■  First off, Doug establishes our value in this spot. 

■  He says that we should be going all in with our AT 
combos (which we should have at a very high 
frequency after checking the flop) in order to stack 
villain’s Tx, and that we should mainly raise small 
when we have just a Tx hand ourselves. 
■  Now that we have defined our value, we must find our bluffs. In 
this spot, we will have to be a bit creative since we will have to 
use hands that have some showdown value. 

■  Our bluffs will have to come from Jx hands. We would 
be mainly betting Kx on the flop, and even though we 
are not happy about it, we must call Qx in order to not 
overfold. Now we’re down to our Jx hands, and we 

 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

can fold some of them since we have so many Jx in 
our range after checking the flop (classic Category 2 
hand). 

■  Therefore, these Jx holdings are close between 

calling or folding, what makes us consider them as 
bluff candidates. After establishing that some Jx must 
be bluffed, we should think about the removal 
properties of our bluffs. In that scenario, it would be 
important for us to have A in order to block villain’s 
nut combos (AT). Therefore, AJ is one of the best bluff 
candidates and Doug decides to go for the jam. 

 In this lesson, Doug will focus on spots where we can put a lot of 
pressure with overbets on villains due to the fact that they are capped. 
He reviewed a hand that perfectly illustrates that scenario starting 
@02:50. 

■  The game is $100/$200 heads-up against Sauce1234. 
■  Doug raises to $240 on the SB/BTN, and BB calls. 
■  The flop ($960) comes K♦ 8♥ T♠. BB checks, Doug bets $720, 

BB calls. 

■  This is a great flop for the preflop raiser. BB should 
not have any of the sets (maybe only 88 at a small 
frequency) and only a reduced amount of the two 
pairs. Therefore BTN can be very aggressive on such 
a board and Doug’s KT is basically the nuts. 

■  Turn ($2400) 5♣. BB checks, Doug bets $1,800, BB calls. 

■  This turn is basically a brick, which means Doug can 
continue with an aggressive betting strategy. That’s 
what he does and let’s take a river. 
■  River ($6000) is the J♥. Now the board is K♦ 8♥ T♠ 5♣ J♥. 

■  Even though this might look like a dicey river since 
several straights complete, in reality BB should not 
have many straights at all in this spot (he is capped). 

 
  


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

His AQ would have 3-bet preflop in BB’s shoes; Q9 
and 97 would have been folded on the turn nearly 
always; and KJ for the two pairs would have 3-bet 
preflop at a high frequency. 

■  On the other hand, Doug is uncapped as he can easily 
have all of these nutted hands (with exception of AQ 
that will check on the flop a decent amount of the 
time). Clearly a very favorable situation for BTN, who 
can work in an aggressive strategy with a good 
amount of overbetting. 

■  Our bluffs would mainly be missed straight draws 

such as 96, 76, and 64. 

■  As a final note, Doug reminds us that even though having three 

or more bet sizes on certain spots is optimal in theory, we 
should not try to replicate this strategy in practice as humans 
because we would not be able to apply such a complex 
strategy in a balanced way. Using only a couple of sizes in a 
balanced and effective manner will be sufficient for us to 
achieve a high level of poker. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

% above in each line is percent of hands you should jam with! The rest non jam should be 
raises with your bluffs and then the top top hands (JJ+, AK etc), getting more value hands as 
jam number goes down 

^18-28: 3b small with stronger hands like JJ+, AKs combined with your bluffs that cant rly 
profitably just call to balance, and these 3b small hands dont care as much about what flop is 
like jam ones do. Jam with hands where the board can easily be bad for them (like mid pairs or 
mid broadways, so you dont have to fold to a bluff). Occasionally mix in a strong hand (JJ, QQ) 
from the 3b small hand so opponent cant always loosely call jams. 
Flat slightly less as stacks get smaller, you can still flat, just be careful. 

Also, rmbr if jamming a rfi you lose fold equity on lower stacks so be careful with that 

 
 
 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

General but not set in stone guideline(under 25-30 ish): 
Wheel aces vs rfi: 3bet small 
Stronger aces (A8s, A9s): Jam 
Mid aces(A7, A6): fold 

Generally want to flat if hands can continue more after a flop or if low pair (in bb, sb, button 
mostly). 

TAKE INTO ACCOUNT YOUR STACK AND OPPONENTS ALWAYS WHEN DECIDING. 
Smaller his stack more likely to call jam, bigger your stack worse price to jam to win the blinds.  

Push fold chart: 
https://www.mypokercoaching.com/push-fold-chart/ 

UPSWING 

POKER 
Members 

Merch 
FAQ 
Contact 
Vincent Guarnieri 
TRAINING 
ARTICLES 
QUIZZES 
REVIEWS 
OUR PROS 
FREERESOURCES 
Home > Dashboard > Tournament Starter Pack > ICM Basics by Doug Polk 

 Back 

ICM Basics 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

ICM or the Independent Chip Model is a way of evaluating the real 
money value of chips in a poker tournament. It helps you know what 
your chip stack is worth in dollars which helps govern decision making. 

In a cash game, you can quit your session at any time and leave with the 
chips in your stack and trade the for dollars at 1 to 1. In a tournament you 
MUST finish in a certain position, the top ~10-15% of those positions 
paying out. At the end of a tournament someone will win all of the chips, 
but only 15-25% of all of the money (in most cases). 

If you were to play a $5,000 dollar tournament that started with 5,000 
chips, you're paying $1 per 1 chip before the first hand is dealt. As the 
tournament rolls on, however, 1 chip stops equaling $1. 

There are a number of factors that impact the real dollar value of your 
stack as it fluctuates: 

1.  Your stack size 
2.  The stack of everyone else in the tournament 
3.  The payout structure 

To sum it all up, ICM is the math behind understanding the dollar 
value of your chip stack. It's a useful but imperfect estimation based on 
a model that determines your likely finishing position. 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Let's cement your understanding of ICM with two simple examples. 

ICM Example 1 

Tournament buy-in: $1,000 

Total entrants: 9 

Starting stack: 1000 chips 

In this instance, assuming all players are of equal skill, each player's 
stack is worth $1,000 (1 chip = $1) before the first hand is dealt. Here's a 
screenshot from an free ICM tool showing this: 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Now, imagine after several levels of play that 5 players have been 
knocked out and the chip stacks now look like this: 

 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

(I'm using ICMIZER's free calculator to evaluate the dollar value of chip 
stacks in these examples. You can find this tool here. Advanced ICM 
calculations can be done using ICMIZER's premium tool.) 

As you can see, 1 chip no longer equals $1. This brings us to one of the 
fundamental takeaways of ICM... 

The fewer chips you have, the more valuable they are on a per chip 
basis. Conversely, the more chips you have the less valuable they 
are. 

This happens because of the payout structure. One player has 800 
chips, but there's no way to win exactly $800 in this tournament. You'll 
either win $5k, $2.5k, $1.5k, or $0. Even 1 chip has some value because 

 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

you still have some (albeit very small) chance of cashing for $5k, $2.5k, 
or $1.5k. 

And this is the point in a tournament where a bubble is introduced. It is 
very valuable to not bust immediately because, if you were to survive, 
you increase your expectation. 

What that means is that losing is asymmetric to winning. In practice, 
this often leads to less risk taking. 

For example, suppose I’m the player in third place with1900 chips. I"m 
presented the option to flip a coin for 100 chips, which will leave me with 
either 1800 or 2000 chips. I would strongly prefer to not engage in this 
wager because losing 100 chips is more costly than gaining 100 chips is 
beneficial. 

Here is an example where we win 100 chips vs the short stack at the 
table: 



[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

By winning 100 chips, my third place stack has increased in value by 
about $92 ($2170 to $2262) 

Let's compare that to losing 100 chips to the same player: 

 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

By losing 100 chips, my stack has decreased in value by about $94 
($2170 to $2076) 

Here are the results: 

Adding an additional 100 chips nets us $92.29 in stack value, whereas 
losing 100 chips nets us a $93.65 loss. That comes out to a net loss of 
$1.36 dollars. 

This disincentivizes players from taking risks, which has several big 
strategic implications: 

■  The players with the middling stacks are forced to protect their 
position and take fewer risks, which is like being strategically 
handcuffed. 

■  If you have the shortest or the biggest stack, you are at an 

advantage. 

 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

■  Short stacks have the least to lose since their stack is worth 

the least, so they get to play aggressively. 

■  Big stacks can afford to take a hit to their stack, which allows 
them to leverage their good position to steal pots from the 
other players. 

Which leads me to... 

ICM Example 2 

Here are the stack sizes and payouts again: 

Suppose the blinds are 100/200. 

 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

The 2800 stack is in the big blind, the 3500 in the small blind. 

Action folds to the 3500 stack who shoves the (on a chip basis i.e. 
chipEV) unexploitable equilibrium range of 46% of hands. That range 
looks like this: 

[22+,A2s+,K3s+,Q4s+,J5s+,T6s+,96s+,85s+,75s+,64s+,54s,A2o+,K6o+,
Q9o+,J9o+,T8o+,98o] 

 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

(I used the SnapShove app to generate these ranges. Hold'em 
Resources is another useful tool to find this kind of information.) 

At equilibrium, the 2800 stack in the big blind would call with 28.8% of 
hands: 

[22+,A2s+,K7s+,Q9s+,JTs,A2o+,KTo+,QTo+] 

 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

In this situation, the big blind is calling 2600 to win 5600. With a quick pot 
odds calculation, you can figure out that means the big blind needs 
46.43% equity to call profitably. 

Let’s look at the bottom hands in the big blind's equilibrium calling range 
and see how they are doing vs the shoving range: 

A2o has ~47% equity and thus this call (which risks 2600 chips) nets us 
~37 chips on average. 

How much is that worth in dollars? 

If we win, our stack increases in value from $2726 to $3933 (+$1793). 

 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

And if we lose, our stack decreases in value from $2726 to 0 (-$2726). 

What's the net result of this call with A2o? 

As this quick math shows, making this call and risking our tournament life 
to win 37 chips would be a massive error. When we win, we increase the 
value of our stack by $1322.16. When we lose, we decrease the value of 
our stack by $2611.14. 

 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

We actually need $(2611.14/($1322.16+$2611.14) = 2611.14/3933.3) 
~66.4% equity vs your opponent's shoving range to call profitably. 

If the SB is aware of this, they are likely to shove 100% of hands. Even 
against that range -- literally every possible hand -- A2o is not even close 
to strong enough to call: 

It has just 54.93% equity, well short of the 66.4% we need to call. 

What about a premium preflop hand like AQs? 

Even [AQs] is barely not strong enough. Same with [77] and [AKo]. 

 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

(Advanced note: I mentioned in passing earlier that ICM is an imperfect 
model. This is because it doesn't account for what poker pros call future 
game simulations. When you call and double up against the big stack, 
here, you will be overwhelming chip leader with 4 players left. If that 
happens, you become the player who gets to play more aggressively and 
steal pots from your opponents who are trying to survive past the money 
bubble. This increases the expected dollar value of calling with AQs, 77 
and AKo, and it likely pushes all three hands into profitability.) 

This is a simple and easy example showing what ICM is and how it 
impacts the optimal strategy. 

The big takeaway for you is this: if you aren’t the biggest or shortest 
stack, you are going to need to play extra conservatively, especially 
preflop. If you are a very large or very short stack, you get to loosen up. 

 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

There are two final things to keep in mind: 

1.  ICM is most relevant at the final table, the money bubble, 
and before big pay jumps. As you approach a pay jump, it 
plays a bigger role and you need to adjust accordingly. 
2.  It is also important to be aware of whether or not your 

opponents are privy to ICM. Many recreational players play 
tournaments and don’t have the slightest clue it exists. Against 
these players, you will want to be more conservative as they 
will be playing hands that would otherwise be considered 
spew. Oftentimes you cannot run these players over anywhere 
near the extent that you would versus a player trying to 
preserve the dollar value of his stack. That said, if you're up 
against the guys who are aware of ICM and they have the 
middling stacks, you are clear to drop the hammer with 
aggressive plays. 

Poker Lab Home 

← Previous Lesson 

Next Lesson → 

UPSWING POKER 
© Copyright 2023 
Sitemap 
Responsible Gambling 

 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Terms of Service 
Contact 

MORE ICM: 

 
 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Mistake in tourney: people play too scared later on which affects poorly. This doesnt mean play 
loose, however play normally still having good bluffs. Bluffs even do better when people are 
scared. 

Common mistake with people who do well start and middle but bust out towards final table: they 
play too tight and bleed almost, need to have preflop shoves to double up if you want to win. 
And need to have good and well thought-out postflop shoves as well. Cant be scared!! Cant be 
afraid to shove, its what the winners do. You NEED to as well, you cannot be scared, it just will 
not work and you will find ylurself losing on bubble or before bubble wayyy too frequently. 
^dont be scared to shove pre, and dont be scared to bluff! 
^^need need need to bluff, cant really underbluff it is just to exploitable with better players. Need 
to bluff like upswing teaches, both pre and post flop!! 
-rly rly rly need to have bluffs. Also need check raise bluffs to balance check raise value and to 
stop others stabs. 
-ILL SAY IT AGAIN- DONT BE SCDARED TO BLUFF on ALL streets, post and pre. NEED to be 
balancerd for better players, so need to have a good amount of bluffs. Your bad friends may 
make you scared to bluff, but dont be afraid to just ship it and have aggressive bluffs. NEED 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

bluffs on flop, turn, and river, and gonna even need some all-in bluffs too. (j pick bluffs correctly 
with equity on flop/turn and good blockers/unblockers on river) 

If tourney is tough, shove the slightly marginal profits bc your edge is smaller. Also, people may 
play tighter than should so can shove a little wider. 

 
 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

CC = call-call 

 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Positional advantage more important when deeper 

 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

l-j=limp-jams 

BvB= blind vs blind 

Need to have some bluff shoves like suited hands as well! 
Balance! 

 
 
 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Stack multiple: multiple of your stack to their stack when you 
cover them 

Less stack, nuts can be a little worse. 

 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

need blufffffs 

 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Cbetting in 3bet pots is just so so so so profitable!    

-  be thinking about why your making any bet/bet size at any point and what your 
trying to accomplish, like what parts of their range your targeting w bet/betsize 
(either to get folded or to get calls from or things like that), how population 
tendencies work in this situation, etc.  
think what can i do to make them make a mistake, and what’s the mistake he is 
gonna make. (aka calling 3bets to wide, etc), and how to put yourself in position to 
make money when those mistakes are made. 

- 

MAKE SURE YOU BLUFF LIKE UPWSING DOES AND DO IT ENOUGH! You NEEd to be 
balanced w better people 

 
 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

Block betting can be good 

■  In the beginning of the video (2:34), Doug and Ryan go over a 

hypothetical preflop situation in which Hero (BTN) faces a 2.1x 
CO raise and decides to 3-bet A3s for 7.5x. In order to justify 
their hand selection, they explain that A3s has good removal 
effect against the top of villain’s range (blocking AA, AK, and 
other strong Ax hands that villains will continue with against 
our 3-bet). 

■  That blocker means we will face slightly more folds and slightly 
less 4-bets when we 3-bet with this hand. As Doug said, this 
difference might not seem very consequential, but since we 
have to be selective about the amount of hands that we 3-bet 
as a bluff, it seems reasonable to choose hands that are 
slightly superior candidates over not as good ones. We have to 
keep in mind that poker is a game of small edges and even a 
1-2% difference in equity will have a huge impact in your 
bottom-line over the long-term. The same reasoning applies to 
justify the next preflop example (KQo - 4:06). 

■  After that, Doug highlights two important questions to consider 

when we are bluffing on the river: 

■  1. How good is our removal against the top of villain’s 

range? 

■  2. How likely is our hand to win at showdown? 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

■  A perfect bluffing candidate is a hand that has good removal 
against the top of villain’s range and is not likely to win at 
showdown. 

■  It is important to note that in preflop situations, we can 

substitute the showdown value factor for playability (ability to 
realize equity). 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


[Image or diagram may be present here — check original PDF]

